Miss Bartlett DIALOGUES
The Signora had no business to do it, no business
at all. She promised us south rooms with a view close together, instead
of which here are north rooms, looking into a courtyard, and a long way
apart. Oh, Lucy! This meat has surely been used for soup, Any nook does for me, but it does seem hard
that you shouldn't have a view. You must have it, I insist on it. Your mother would never forgive me, Lucy. A view? Oh, a view! How delightful a view is! Ah, Thank you very much indeed; that is out of the
question. Because it is quite out of the question, thank you. Eat your dinner, dear, Eat your dinner, dear. This pension is a failure. To-morrow we will
make a change. How do you do, Mr. Beebe? I expect that you have forgotten us: Miss
Bartlett and Miss Honeychurch, who were at Tunbridge Wells when you
helped the Vicar of St. Peter's that very cold Easter. Miss Honeychurch lives in the parish of Summer Street, and she happened to tell me in the course
of conversation that you have just accepted the living-- Lucy, dearest, let Mr. Beebe eat his dinner. That lady looks so clever, We
are in luck. We are most grateful to you, The first evening means so much. When you arrived we were in for a
peculiarly mauvais quart d'heure. Do you, by any chance, know the name of an old man who sat opposite us
at dinner? Is he a friend of yours? Then I will say no more. I am, as it were, the chaperon of my young cousin,
Lucy, and it would be a serious thing if I put her under an obligation
to people of whom we know nothing. His manner was somewhat unfortunate.
I hope I acted for the best. No harm, of course. But we could not be under an obligation. Am I to conclude, that he is a Socialist? And presumably he has brought up his son to be a Socialist, too? Oh, you relieve me, So you think I ought to
have accepted their offer? You feel I have been narrow-minded and
suspicious? But ought I not to apologize, at all events, for my apparent rudeness? Was I a bore? Why
didn't you talk, Lucy? He prefers young people, I'm sure. I do hope I
haven't monopolized him. I hoped you would have him all the evening, as
well as all dinner-time. My dear Lucia-- Funny girl! How you do remind me of your mother. I wonder if she will
approve of Mr. Beebe. I think everyone at Windy Corner will approve; it is the fashionable
world. I am used to Tunbridge Wells, where we are all hopelessly behind
the times. I am
afraid you are finding me a very depressing companion. Undoubtedly he was, Beautiful? Are not beauty
and delicacy the same? My own wishes, dearest Lucy, are unimportant in comparison with
yours. It would be hard indeed if I stopped you doing as you liked at
Florence, when I am only here through your kindness. If you wish me to
turn these gentlemen out of their rooms, I will do it. Would you then,
Mr. Beebe, kindly tell Mr. Emerson that I accept his kind offer, and
then conduct him to me, in order that I may thank him personally? Remember, Lucy, I alone am implicated in this. I do not wish the
acceptance to come from you. Grant me that, at all events. Poor young man! I think one might venture now. No, Lucy, do not stir. I will
superintend the move. Naturally, dear. It is my affair. No, dear. I want to explain, why it is that I have taken
the largest room. Naturally, of course, I should have given it to you;
but I happen to know that it belongs to the young man, and I was sure
your mother would not like it. If you are to accept a favour it is more suitable you should be under
an obligation to his father than to him. I am a woman of the world, in
my small way, and I know where things lead to. However, Mr. Beebe is a
guarantee of a sort that they will not presume on this. What does it mean? Very well, dear, How I do wish Freddy and
your mother could see this, too! Look, Lucia! Oh, you are watching for the Torre del Gallo party. I
feared you would repent you of your choice. Oh, let me congratulate you! After your despair
of yesterday! What a fortunate thing! What is the heroine's name? I do hope she's nice. And what is the plot? Oh, you wicked woman, I am sure you are thinking
of the Emersons. She is my idea of a really clever woman, That
last remark struck me as so particularly true. It should be a most
pathetic novel. She is emancipated, but only in the very best sense of the word, None but the superficial would be
shocked at her. We had a long talk yesterday. She believes in justice
and truth and human interest. She told me also that she has a high
opinion of the destiny of woman--Mr. Eager! Why, how nice! What a
pleasant surprise! We were chatting to Miss Lavish. Humiliating indeed, Miss Honeychurch happened to
be passing through as it happened. She can hardly bear to speak of it. Do
not blame her, please, Mr. Eager. The fault is mine: I left her
unchaperoned. One of our pension acquaintances kindly brought her home, Willingly would I purchase-- How wonderfully people rise in these days! Is he a journalist now? Oh, so he has a wife. Lucy, dear-- Perhaps, it is something that we had better not
hear. How could you think she was defending them? If that is so, dear--if the drive we and Mr. Beebe are going with Mr.
Eager is really the same as the one we are going with Mr. Beebe, then I
foresee a sad kettle of fish. Because Mr. Beebe has asked Eleanor Lavish to come, too. Far worse. Mr. Eager does not like Eleanor. She knows it herself. The
truth must be told; she is too unconventional for him. where things might lead to, Whether it is Mr. Beebe who forgot to tell Mr. Eager, or Mr.
Eager who forgot when he told us, or whether they have decided to leave
Eleanor out altogether--which they could scarcely do--but in any case
we must be prepared. It is you they really want; I am only asked for
appearances. You shall go with the two gentlemen, and I and Eleanor will
follow behind. A one-horse carriage would do for us. Yet how difficult
it is! What do you think about it? Oh, dear, Lucy! I do hope Florence isn't boring you. Speak the word,
and, as you know, I would take you to the ends of the earth to-morrow. And the news? Oh, not that way back. We can never have too much of the dear Piazza
Signoria. I die for it! Oh, you droll person! Pray, what would become of your drive in the
hills? Eleanor, be quiet, Hush! They'll
hear--the Emersons-- Eleanor! Oh, Lucy, you ought to be with Mr. Eager, I'm sure. Mr. Eager will be offended. It is your party. How tired one gets, Oh, I do wish Freddy and your
mother could be here. Lucy; without a moment's doubt, Lucy. The ground will do for me. Really
I have not had rheumatism for years. If I do feel it coming on I shall
stand. Imagine your mother's feelings if I let you sit in the wet
in your white linen. Here we are, all settled delightfully. Even if my
dress is thinner it will not show so much, being brown. Sit down, dear;
you are too unselfish; you don't assert yourself enough. Now don't be alarmed; this isn't a cold. It's the tiniest
cough, and I have had it three days. It's nothing to do with sitting
here at all. Lucy! Lucy! Lucy! Go, Mr. Eager, don't ask our driver; our driver is
no help. Go and support poor Mr. Beebe--, he is nearly demented. Nothing, dearest; he knows nothing. But-- HE knows everything. Dearest, had we better? Shall I? It is dreadful to be entangled with low-class people.
He saw it all. Silenzio! Do not cry, dearest. Take your time. I trust not. One would always pray against that. In a book? And then? Don't be troubled, dearest. Wait till you are calmer. We will talk it
over before bed-time in my room. Well, dear, I at all events am ready for Bedfordshire. Come into my
room, and I will give a good brush to your hair. So what is to be done? What is to be done? A point, dearest, which you alone can settle. How do you propose to silence him? My dear girl, no; Mr. George Emerson. How are you going to stop him talking about it? I, too, intend to judge him charitably. But unfortunately I have met
the type before. They seldom keep their exploits to themselves. My poor dear, did you suppose that this was his first? Come here
and listen to me. I am only gathering it from his own remarks. Do you
remember that day at lunch when he argued with Miss Alan that liking one
person is an extra reason for liking another? Well, I am no prude. There is no need to call him a wicked young man,
but obviously he is thoroughly unrefined. Let us put it down to his
deplorable antecedents and education, if you wish. But we are no farther
on with our question. What do you propose to do? And you are going to IMPLORE him, to BEG him to keep silence? But we fear him for you, dear. You are so young and inexperienced, you
have lived among such nice people, that you cannot realize what men can
be--how they can take a brutal pleasure in insulting a woman whom her
sex does not protect and rally round. This afternoon, for example, if I
had not arrived, what would have happened? What would have happened if I hadn't arrived? When he insulted you, how would you have replied? Yes, but won't you tell me now what you would have done? Come away from the window, dear, You will be seen
from the road. Oh, for a real man! We are only two women, you and I. Mr. Beebe is
hopeless. There is Mr. Eager, but you do not trust him. Oh, for your
brother! He is young, but I know that his sister's insult would rouse
in him a very lion. Thank God, chivalry is not yet dead. There are still
left some men who can reverence woman. It will be a push to catch the morning train, but we must try. The train to Rome. At eight. We must face that, I expect she will. However, we shall be much more comfortable at the
Vyses' hotel. Isn't afternoon tea given there for nothing? Dearest Lucy, how will you ever forgive me? You have a great deal, and I have a very great deal to forgive myself,
too. I know well how much I vex you at every turn. Ah, but yes! I feel that our tour together is hardly the success I had
hoped. I might have known it would not do. You want someone younger
and stronger and more in sympathy with you. I am too uninteresting and
old-fashioned--only fit to pack and unpack your things. My only consolation was that you found people more to your taste, and
were often able to leave me at home. I had my own poor ideas of what a
lady ought to do, but I hope I did not inflict them on you more than was
necessary. You had your own way about these rooms, at all events. I have been a failure, Failed to make you
happy; failed in my duty to your mother. She has been so generous to me;
I shall never face her again after this disaster. It is my fault, it is a disaster. She will never forgive me, and
rightly. For instance, what right had I to make friends with Miss
Lavish? When I was here for your sake? If I have vexed you it is equally true
that I have neglected you. Your mother will see this as clearly as I do,
when you tell her. But you tell her everything? I dare not break your confidence. There is something sacred in it.
Unless you feel that it is a thing you could not tell her. I wish one word with you in the drawing-room, Mr. Emerson, please. Good-night, Mr.
Emerson. Go to bed at once, dear. You need all the rest you can get. I shall never forgive myself, I have upset everything. Bursting in on young people! But I insist on
paying for my cab up. Grant that, at any rate. I do not feel myself an ordinary visitor, But who
am I to give the sovereign to? No, dear; your mother may take quite a long drive now that she is not
hampered with me. We all have our little foibles, and mine is the prompt
settling of accounts. Please--please--I know I am a sad spoil-sport, but it would make me
wretched. I should practically be robbing the one who lost. Fifteen shillings, How is that, Mr.
Vyse? I had forgotten the driver, Thank you,
dear, for reminding me. A shilling was it? Can any one give me change
for half a crown? Lucy--Lucy--what a nuisance I am! Have you told him about him yet? How dreadful! how more than dreadful, if Mr. Vyse
should come to hear of it from some other source. For instance, the driver. I saw him looking
through the bushes at you, remember he had a violet between his teeth. We must think of every possibility. Or perhaps old Mr. Emerson knows. In fact, he is certain to know. To contradict it? Very well, dear, you know best. Perhaps gentlemen are different to what
they were when I was young. Ladies are certainly different. I am no match for you in conversation, dearest. I
blush when I think how I interfered at Florence, and you so well able
to look after yourself, and so much cleverer in all ways than I am. You
will never forgive me. Dear, one moment--we may not have this chance for a chat again. Have
you seen the young one yet? What happened? What line is he taking up? Once a cad, always a cad. That is my poor opinion. Once a cad, always a cad, Dear Marian, I am very sorry, but I have no small change--nothing but
sovereigns and half crowns. Could any one give me-- If I did not wear my best rags and tatters now, when should I wear
them? Our performer has changed her mind, I agree with you, Mr. Vyse. You had much better not
play. Much better not. Dear--? My good Lucia, I am all at sea. I know nothing about it whatever. Told her what? Oh, Lucy, dearest girl--she hasn't
put that in her book? Then never--never--never more shall Eleanor Lavish be a friend of
mine. I did just happen--when I had tea with her at Rome--in the course of
conversation-- I will never forgive Eleanor. She has betrayed my confidence. Oh, Lucy--I shall never forgive myself, never to my dying day. Fancy if
your prospects-- I always said he was a cad, dear. Give me credit for that, at all
events. From the very first moment--when he said his father was having a
bath. Willingly would I move heaven and earth-- Never again shall Eleanor Lavish be a friend of mine. It is the kind of thing that only a gentleman can settle. Oh, Lucy, but that is brave of you! I admire you-- Lucy, do you mind doing it? Poor Lucy-- I seem to bring nothing
but misfortune wherever I go. Oh, Lucia--come back here--oh, what an awful man! Well, it isn't everyone who could boast such a conquest, dearest, is
it? Oh, one oughtn't to laugh, really. It might have been very serious.
But you were so sensible and brave--so unlike the girls of my day. How do you do? It is always terrible when the promise of months is destroyed in a
moment, I think we had better leave Lucy to herself, and to her own pursuits. Lucy can always play, We had much better let the matter
drop. It is of the highest importance that there should be no gossip in
Summer Street. It would be DEATH to gossip about Mr. Vyse's dismissal at
the present moment. I know, Yet Freddy ought not to have told
even you. One cannot be too careful. I do implore absolute secrecy. A chance word to a chattering friend,
and-- There I cannot agree with you. In it
I spy Lucy's salvation. She wanted to leave Windy Corner. It is natural, surely--after such painful scenes--that she should
desire a change. You may well ask that, Why Greece?
(What is it, Minnie dear--jam?) Why not Tunbridge Wells? Oh, Mr. Beebe!
I had a long and most unsatisfactory interview with dear Lucy this
morning. I cannot help her. I will say no more. Perhaps I have already
said too much. I am not to talk. I wanted her to spend six months with
me at Tunbridge Wells, and she refused. But my feelings are of no importance. I know too well that I get on
Lucy's nerves. Our tour was a failure. She wanted to leave Florence, and
when we got to Rome she did not want to be in Rome, and all the time I
felt that I was spending her mother's money--. Very well, I for one will help her to go to Greece.
Will you? It is absolutely necessary, I know--I know. She must not stop here a moment, and we must
keep quiet till she goes. I trust that the servants know nothing.
Afterwards--but I may have said too much already. Only, Lucy and I are
helpless against Mrs. Honeychurch alone. If you help we may succeed.
Otherwise-- Otherwise, Lucy dearest-- 

Lucy DIALOGUES
And a Cockney, besides! It might be London. Charlotte, don't you feel,
too, that we might be in London? I can hardly believe that all kinds of
other things are just outside. I suppose it is one's being so tired. I want so to see the Arno. The rooms the Signora promised us in her
letter would have looked over the Arno. The Signora had no business to
do it at all. Oh, it is a shame! Charlotte, you mustn't spoil me:
of course, you must look over the Arno, too. I meant that. The first
vacant room in the front-- No, no. You must have it. She would never forgive me. You see, we don't like to take-- Oh, oh! Why, it's
Mr. Beebe! Oh, how perfectly lovely! Oh, Charlotte, we must stop now,
however bad the rooms are. Oh! I AM so glad to see you, Just fancy how small the world is. Summer
Street, too, makes it so specially funny. Yes, I heard from mother so last week. She didn't know that I knew you
at Tunbridge Wells; but I wrote back at once, and I said: 'Mr. Beebe
is--' Oh, how glad I am! The name of our house is Windy Corner. There is mother and me generally, and my brother, though it's not often
we get him to ch---- The church is rather far off, I mean. I was hoping that he was nice; I do so
always hope that people will be nice. He is nice, Just what I remember. He seems to see
good in everyone. No one would take him for a clergyman. Well, you know what I mean. And you know how clergymen generally laugh;
Mr. Beebe laughs just like an ordinary man. I'm sure she will; and so will Freddy. Yes, I must have been selfish or unkind; I must
be more careful. It is so dreadful for Charlotte, being poor. Yet our rooms smell, We dread going to bed. I think he was meaning to be kind. Mr. Beebe has just been scolding me for my suspicious nature. Of
course, I was holding back on my cousin's account. About old Mr. Emerson--I hardly know. No, he is not tactful; yet, have
you ever noticed that there are people who do things which are most
indelicate, and yet at the same time--beautiful? So one would have thought, But things are
so difficult, I sometimes think. Oh, Charlotte, we must have the rooms now.
The old man is just as nice and kind as he can be. How angry he is with his father about the rooms! It is all he can do to
keep polite. How you do do everything, But I would like to help you. Mother wouldn't mind I'm sure, Is it a very nice smell? Indeed, I'm not! We are Radicals, too, out and out.
My father always voted for Mr. Gladstone, until he was so dreadful about
Ireland. Oh, please--! If my father was alive, I am sure he would vote Radical
again now that Ireland is all right. And as it is, the glass over our
front door was broken last election, and Freddy is sure it was the
Tories; but mother says nonsense, a tramp. No--in the Surrey hills. About five miles from Dorking, looking over
the Weald. Very well indeed. Why, she rents a field of us! How funny! Hardly any, Only thirty
acres--just the garden, all downhill, and some fields. We sat opposite them at dinner last night. They have given us their
rooms. They were so very kind. What would you ask us? I'm not sure she understands English, No, I came here with Miss
Lavish, who was to explain everything; and just by the door--it is too
bad!--she simply ran away, and after waiting quite a time, I had to come
in by myself. But Miss Lavish has even taken away Baedeker. Thank you very much, but I could not think of that. I hope you do not
suppose that I came to join on to you. I really came to help with the
child, and to thank you for so kindly giving us your rooms last night. I
hope that you have not been put to any great inconvenience. I am not touchy, I hope. It is the Giottos that I want to see, if you
will kindly tell me which they are. I hope we all try, How silly of them! I
think that a kind action done tactfully-- Yes, They are lovely. Do you know which is the tombstone
that is praised in Ruskin? I like Giotto, It is so wonderful what they say about
his tactile values. Though I like things like the Della Robbia babies
better. Oh, dear! And what is it? What things? Oh, Mr. Emerson, whatever do you mean? I'm very sorry, You'll think me unfeeling, but--but-- Oh, but your son wants employment. Has he no
particular hobby? Why, I myself have worries, but I can generally forget
them at the piano; and collecting stamps did no end of good for my
brother. Perhaps Italy bores him; you ought to try the Alps or the
Lakes. Oh, good gracious me! Where? Where? I see. Those gossiping little Miss Alans must have-- Poor girl? I fail to understand the point of that remark. I think
myself a very fortunate girl, I assure you. I'm thoroughly happy, and
having a splendid time. Pray don't waste time mourning over me. There's
enough sorrow in the world, isn't there, without trying to invent it.
Good-bye. Thank you both so much for all your kindness. Ah, yes! there
does come my cousin. A delightful morning! Santa Croce is a wonderful
church. Oh, what a funny thing! Some one said just the same to mother, and she
said she trusted I should never live a duet. She doesn't mind it. But she doesn't like one to get excited over
anything; she thinks I am silly about it. She thinks--I can't make
out. Once, you know, I said that I liked my own playing better than any
one's. She has never got over it. Of course, I didn't mean that I played
well; I only meant-- Music-- Poor Charlotte will be sopped, Miss Lavish is so original, Is it true, that Miss Lavish is
writing a book? What is it about? I wish Miss Lavish would tell me herself. We started such friends. But
I don't think she ought to have run away with Baedeker that morning in
Santa Croce. Charlotte was most annoyed at finding me practically alone,
and so I couldn't help being a little annoyed with Miss Lavish. What was that? Whatever happened? Mr. Beebe--old Mr. Emerson, is he nice or not nice? I do so want to
know. No; but it is so difficult. Sometimes he is so silly, and then I do not
mind him. Miss Alan, what do you think? Is he nice? Only once. Charlotte didn't like it, and said something--quite
politely, of course. I think I shall go out, I want to go round the town in the
circular tram--on the platform by the driver. Perhaps I shall meet someone who reads me through and through! The world, is certainly full
of beautiful things, if only I could come across them. Nothing ever happens to me, Oh, what have I done? Oh, what have I done? Oh, what have I done? I--I am very sorry. Perfectly well--absolutely well. How very kind you have been! I might have hurt myself falling. But now
I am well. I can go alone, thank you. Oh, my photographs! I bought some photographs at Alinari's. I must have dropped them out
there in the square. Would you add to
your kindness by fetching them? Yes, I am, thank you so very much. But I had rather-- I had rather be alone. Oh, what have I done? And the murderer tried to kiss him, you say--how very odd Italians
are!--and gave himself up to the police! Mr. Beebe was saying that
Italians know everything, but I think they are rather childish. When my
cousin and I were at the Pitti yesterday--What was that? What did you throw in? Mr. Emerson! Where are the photographs? I believe it was my photographs that you threw away. Mr. Emerson-- I have behaved ridiculously. I was never so much ashamed of myself in my life; I cannot think what
came over me. Well, I owe you a thousand apologies. And--this is the real point--you know how silly people are
gossiping--ladies especially, I am afraid--you understand what I mean? I mean, would you not mention it to any one, my foolish behaviour? Thank you so much. And would you-- Well, thank you so much, How quickly these accidents do
happen, and then one returns to the old life! But why, Mr. Emerson? What do you mean? No, Charlotte! It's very kind of
Mr. Beebe, but I am certainly coming with you. I had much rather. I'm sorry--if you could manage without it, I think I would rather not. Practically. He died by the fountain, I believe, Were over at the Loggia. What? Do you mean, that he is an irreligious man? We know that
already. You have said very little. How? Not a word, Mr. Eager--not a single word. I'm not defending them, They're nothing to me. Drive? Oh, is our drive to come off? Bother the drive! It
is just the drive we had arranged with Mr. Beebe without any fuss at
all. Why should he invite us in that absurd manner? We might as well
invite him. We are each paying for ourselves. How? That will mean another carriage. It is indeed, I don't know what I think, nor what I want. Thank you, Charlotte, Mrs. Vyse and her son have gone to Rome, Do you know the Vyses? They're nice people, the Vyses. So clever--my idea of what's really
clever. Don't you long to be in Rome? Charlotte! Here's an idea. What if we popped
off to Rome to-morrow--straight to the Vyses' hotel? For I do know what
I want. I'm sick of Florence. No, you said you'd go to the ends of the
earth! Do! Do! Oh, dear me, no--oh, no! Oh, no. I am here as a tourist. I'm sure it's all right, The Emersons won't hear, and
they wouldn't mind if they did. I can't find them now, and I don't want to either. Please, I'd rather stop here with you. Dove? Dove buoni uomini? Uno--piu--piccolo, Has the cigar been
given to you by Mr. Beebe, the smaller of the two good men? Ma buoni uomini. What is that? No--of course-- What does he know? Charlotte, how much does Mr. Eager know? Charlotte, dear Charlotte, kiss me. Kiss me again. Only you can
understand me. You warned me to be careful. And I--I thought I was
developing. I have been obstinate and silly--worse than you know, far worse. Once
by the river--Oh, but he isn't killed--he wouldn't be killed, would he? He is really--I think he was taken by surprise, just as I was before.
But this time I'm not to blame; I want you to believe that. I simply
slipped into those violets. No, I want to be really truthful. I am a
little to blame. I had silly thoughts. The sky, you know, was gold,
and the ground all blue, and for a moment he looked like someone in a
book. Heroes--gods--the nonsense of schoolgirls. But, Charlotte, you know what happened then. I want to be truthful, It is so hard to be absolutely
truthful. At last, I shall understand myself. I shan't again
be troubled by things that come out of nothing, and mean I don't know
what. It has been raining for nearly four hours, The driver? I don't understand, I have a feeling that talk is a thing he will never do. Exploits? I propose to speak to him, You see, Charlotte, your kindness--I shall never forget it. But--as you
said--it is my affair. Mine and his. Certainly not. There would be no difficulty. Whatever you ask him he
answers, yes or no; then it is over. I have been frightened of him. But
now I am not one little bit. I can't think, I can't think, I hadn't time to think. You came. I should have-- What train? When does the train to Rome go? Signora Bertolini would be upset. She will make us pay for a whole week's pension. Yes, but they pay extra for wine. Charlotte dear, what do you mean? As if I have anything to forgive! But no-- Please-- You mustn't say these things, But mother will understand. It is not your fault, this trouble, and it
isn't a disaster either. Every right. Why need mother hear of it? I suppose I do generally. Naturally I should have told her. But in case she should blame you in
any way, I promise I will not, I am very willing not to. I will never
speak of it either to her or to any one. It isn't true. It can't all be true. I want not to be
muddled. I want to grow older quickly. Oh, now and then, I suppose so. Mother, would it be? I am so sorry that you were stranded. One has to go through it, I suppose. They won't notice us so much next
time. How tiresome! Couldn't you have escaped to tennis? Inglese Italianato? We all have our limitations, I suppose, How? We weren't talking of real fences, Don't you like Mr. Beebe? Now, a clergyman that I do hate, a clergyman that does have fences, and the most dreadful
ones, is Mr. Eager, the English chaplain at Florence. He was truly
insincere--not merely the manner unfortunate. He was a snob, and so
conceited, and he did say such unkind things. There was an old man at the Bertolini whom he said had murdered his
wife. No! He was such a nice old man, I'm sure. Well, I did try to sift the thing. Mr. Eager would never come to the
point. He prefers it vague--said the old man had 'practically' murdered
his wife--had murdered her in the sight of God. Harris, I don't know. I hate him. I've heard him lecture on Giotto. I hate him.
Nothing can hide a petty nature. I HATE him. What height? Summer Street, of course, Rather a strenuous clerk it would be, Sir Harry! I have an idea. How would you like
spinsters? Yes; I met them abroad. Yes, indeed, and at the present moment homeless. I heard from them last
week--Miss Teresa and Miss Catharine Alan. I'm really not joking. They
are quite the right people. Mr. Beebe knows them, too. May I tell them
to write to you? The Misses Alan aren't that! Don't listen to him, Sir Harry--he's tiresome. Then may I write to my Misses Alan? Oh, Cecil! He isn't clever, but really he is nice. All that you say is quite true, I wonder whether--whether it matters so very much. Which way shall we go? Perhaps the road is more sensible, as we're got up smart. Haven't I? The wood, then, A room? Oh, Cecil, whatever do you mean? I have never felt anything of the
sort. You talk as if I was a kind of poetess sort of person. Do you know that you're right? I do. I must be a poetess after all.
When I think of you it's always as in a room. How funny! Yes, with no view, I fancy. Why not? Oh, Cecil, whatever do you mean? The Sacred Lake! I can't remember why. I suppose it comes out of some book. It's only a
puddle now, but you see that stream going through it? Well, a good deal
of water comes down after heavy rains, and can't get away at once, and
the pool becomes quite large and beautiful. Then Freddy used to bathe
there. He is very fond of it. I bathed
here, too, till I was found out. Then there was a row. Charlotte, She was stopping with us.
Charlotte--Charlotte. Yes, I suppose we ought to be going, What, Cecil? Yes? No--more you have, Of course, you may, Cecil. You might before. I can't run at you, you
know. Emerson was the name, not Harris. The old man's. That old man I told you about. The one Mr. Eager was so unkind to. Oh, it has been such a nuisance--first he, then they--no one knowing
what they wanted, and everyone so tiresome. Well, if they are coming--No, Minnie, not Saturn. If they are coming, Sir Harry will let them move
in before the twenty-ninth, and he will cross out the clause about
whitewashing the ceilings, because it made them nervous, and put in the
fair wear and tear one.--That doesn't count. I told you not Saturn. Saturn doesn't bounce. No, he doesn't. Wasn't what name? Nonsense, Freddy! You know nothing about it. Exactly. The Miss Alans? It's only another muddle of Freddy's. Freddy doesn't even know the name
of the people he pretends have taken it instead. What name? What a weathercock Sir Harry is, I wish I had
never bothered over it at all. Emerson's a common enough name, CECIL? But has Cecil-- But Cecil's Emersons--they can't possibly be the
same ones--there is that-- I must go, Don't be silly. You always overdo it
when you play. Cecil! I have heard, Freddy has told us. Naughty Cecil! I suppose
I must forgive you. Just think of all the trouble I took for nothing!
Certainly the Miss Alans are a little tiresome, and I'd rather have nice
friends of yours. But you oughtn't to tease one so. What an odd place to meet people! I don't quite
understand. But, Cecil-- Cecil! No, it's not fair. I've probably met them before-- No, you don't, You don't know what the word means. It isn't fair, Cecil. I blame you--I blame you very much indeed. You
had no business to undo my work about the Miss Alans, and make me look
ridiculous. You call it scoring off Sir Harry, but do you realize that
it is all at my expense? I consider it most disloyal of you. Cecil--Cecil darling, Oh, Cecil, I do, I do! I don't know what I should do without you. I am so sorry, Mrs. Vyse--it is these dreams. Just dreams. Mother, do come away, Oh for goodness' sake, do come. I will bow, I will not shake hands with him.
That will be just the proper thing. No, I don't think so, mother; Cecil's all right. I do think Mrs. Butterworth is rather tiresome, if you mean that. Let me just put your bonnet away, may I? Cecil has a very high standard for people, It's part of his ideals--it is really that that makes
him sometimes seem-- Now, mother! I've seen you cross with Mrs. Butterworth yourself! By-the-by--I never told you. I had a letter from Charlotte while I was
away in London. I--I see what you mean, and certainly Cecil oughtn't to. But he does
not mean to be uncivil--he once explained--it is the things that upset
him--he is easily upset by ugly things--he is not uncivil to PEOPLE. You can't expect a really musical person to enjoy comic songs as we
do. We mustn't be unjust to people, All right, mother-- Oh, dear, what shall I do, what shall I do? My dear baby, how tiresome you've been! You have no business to take
them bathing in the Sacred Lake; it's much too public. It was all right for
you but most awkward for everyone else. Do be more careful. You forget
the place is growing half suburban. Not that I know of. Oh, I wouldn't do that, Freddy, I wouldn't do that with all this
muddle. I meant it's better not. I really mean it. Yes. I really can't stop. I must dress too. All right. Her WHAT? I can't remember all Charlotte's worries, I shall
have enough of my own, now that you are not pleased with Cecil. I saw him in Florence, Ask Cecil; it is Cecil who brought him here. Oh, very slightly. I mean, Charlotte knew them even less than I did. One thing and another, Among other things, that an awful
friend of hers had been bicycling through Summer Street, wondered if
she'd come up and see us, and mercifully didn't. She was a novelist, I tore the thing up. Oh, yes I suppose so--no--not very cheerful, I suppose. Mother, no! It's impossible. We can't have Charlotte on
the top of the other things; we're squeezed to death as it is. Freddy's
got a friend coming Tuesday, there's Cecil, and you've promised to take
in Minnie Beebe because of the diphtheria scare. It simply can't be
done. If Minnie sleeps in the bath. Not otherwise. I won't have her. It's impossible, I don't want to make difficulties,
but it really isn't fair on the maids to fill up the house so. No, I don't. And no more does Cecil. She gets on our nerves. You
haven't seen her lately, and don't realize how tiresome she can be,
though so good. So please, mother, don't worry us this last summer; but
spoil us by not asking her to come. I
can't help it, mother. I don't like Charlotte. I admit it's horrid of
me. Well, she would leave Florence so stupidly. She flurried-- He seems in better spirits. He laughs more. Let's leave it all till mother comes back, I'll get it, Cecil, give me that sovereign. No, give me up that sovereign. I'll get
Euphemia to change it, and we'll start the whole thing again from the
beginning. No, I haven't, Let me see--a
sovereign's worth of silver. No, I haven't told Cecil or any one, I promised you I shouldn't. Here is your money--all shillings, except
two half-crowns. Would you count it? You can settle your debt nicely
now. Oh, no, Charlotte, George Emerson
is all right, and what other source is there? We shall get the silly affair on our nerves
if we aren't careful. How could a Florentine cab-driver ever get hold of
Cecil? Oh, it's all right. I don't care if he does. I was grateful to you for your letter, but
even if the news does get round, I think I can trust Cecil to laugh at
it. No, to laugh at it. Now, Charlotte! Shall we go out, then. They will smash all the china if we don't. Yes, I have. We met at the Rectory. No line. He talked about Italy, like any other person. It is really all
right. What advantage would he get from being a cad, to put it bluntly?
I do wish I could make you see it my way. He really won't be any
nuisance, Charlotte. Cecil said one day--and I thought it so profound--that
there are two kinds of cads--the conscious and the subconscious. What I mean by subconscious is that Emerson lost his head. I fell into
all those violets, and he was silly and surprised. I don't think we
ought to blame him very much. It makes such a difference when you see a
person with beautiful things behind him unexpectedly. It really does;
it makes an enormous difference, and he lost his head: he doesn't admire
me, or any of that nonsense, one straw. Freddy rather likes him, and
has asked him up here on Sunday, so you can judge for yourself. He has
improved; he doesn't always look as if he's going to burst into
tears. He is a clerk in the General Manager's office at one of the big
railways--not a porter! and runs down to his father for week-ends. Papa
was to do with journalism, but is rheumatic and has retired. There!
Now for the garden. Suppose we
don't talk about this silly Italian business any more. We want you to
have a nice restful visit at Windy Corner, with no worriting. It's only the library book that Cecil's been reading. Oh, stop now you have come, Yes, I do hope he will. The old man hasn't been told;
I knew it was all right. He has not told, he has not told. He has not told his father--to whom he tells all things. It was
not an exploit. He did not laugh at me when I had gone. He does not love me. No. How terrible if he did! But
he has not told. He will not tell. It is all right. It's a secret between
us two for ever. Cecil will never hear. The Emersons have been so nice. George Emerson has improved
enormously. Proteges! You shall see for yourself how your proteges are. George Emerson is
coming up this afternoon. He is a most interesting man to talk to. Only
don't-- Oh, I had no idea! Yes, so do I. I vote you
have a men's four. Dreadful! What fun, Cecil! Read away. Come, Mr. Emerson, sit down after all your
energy. Of course I'm not! Yes. I don't see you're such
a splendid player, though. The light was behind you, and it was in my
eyes. Why, you did! You said--oh, don't go in for accuracy at this house. We all
exaggerate, and we get very angry with people who don't. Leonora? Is Leonora the heroine? Who's the book by? indeed! Why it's Miss
Lavish! It's Miss Lavish's novel, and she's publishing it under somebody
else's name. Oh, a dreadful person--Mr. Emerson, you remember Miss Lavish? Weren't you pleased? No wonder the
novel's bad, I never liked Miss Lavish. But I suppose one
ought to read it as one's met her. Oh, Cecil--! How do you like this view of ours, Mr. Emerson? What do you mean? What a splendid idea! I shall enjoy hearing your father
talk again. I'm so sorry he's not so well. Mr. Emerson, have you any brothers or sisters? You spoke of Oh, Cecil--how you made me jump! I can just remember us all three going into the country for the day and
seeing as far as Hindhead. It is the first thing that I remember. Cecil, do read the thing about the view. No--read away. I think nothing's funnier than to hear silly things read
out loud. If Mr. Emerson thinks us frivolous, he can go. No, of course not really, It isn't worth reading--it's too silly
to read--I never saw such rubbish--it oughtn't to be allowed to be
printed. Should we go in to tea? No-- I am not coming in to tea--tell mother--I
must write some letters, Something too awful has happened, Do you know anything about Miss Lavish's novel? There is a scene in it. The hero and heroine make love. Do you know
about that? Do you know about it, please? They are on a hillside,
and Florence is in the distance. There are violets. I cannot believe it is a coincidence. Charlotte,
Charlotte, how could you have told her? I have thought before speaking;
it must be you. About that dreadful afternoon in February. Not so that one could recognize it. Yes. So you did tell? But Charlotte--what about the promise you gave me when we were packing?
Why did you tell Miss Lavish, when you wouldn't even let me tell
mother? Why did you tell her, though? This is a most serious thing. Cecil happened to read out the passage aloud to me and to Mr. Emerson;
it upset Mr. Emerson and he insulted me again. Behind Cecil's back. Ugh!
Is it possible that men are such brutes? Behind Cecil's back as we were
walking up the garden. What is to be done now? Can you tell me? I know, I see now why you wanted me
to tell Cecil, and what you meant by You knew that
you had told Miss Lavish, and that she was not reliable. However, What's done's done. You have put me
in a most awkward position. How am I to get out of it? He must--that man must have such a setting down that he won't forget.
And who's to give it him? I can't tell mother now--owing to you. Nor
Cecil, Charlotte, owing to you. I am caught up every way. I think I
shall go mad. I have no one to help me. That's why I've sent for you.
What's wanted is a man with a whip. Yes--but it's no good agreeing. What's to be DONE. We women go
maundering on. What DOES a girl do when she comes across a cad? Oh, bother the credit and who's been right or wrong! We've both made a
muddle of it. George Emerson is still down the garden there, and is he
to be left unpunished, or isn't he? I want to know. You were ready enough at the Bertolini when you rushed me off to Rome.
Can't you speak again to him now? I want something more definite, Will you
speak to him? It is the least you can do, surely, considering it all
happened because you broke your word. Yes or no, please; yes or no. Very well, No one will help me. I
will speak to him myself. Freddy has taken him into the dining-room. The others are going down
the garden. Come. Let us get this over quickly. Come. I want you in the
room, of course. How can you ask such a ridiculous question? You go down to the others, Charlotte and I will give Mr.
Emerson all he wants. Where's mother? That's all right. You go away. I can't
have it, Mr. Emerson. I cannot even talk to you. Go out of this house,
and never come into it again as long as I live here-- I hate a row. Go please. No discussion. Go, please. I do not want to call in Mr. Vyse. You are
merely ridiculous, I can scarcely discuss-- You say Mr. Vyse wants me to listen to him, Mr. Emerson. Pardon me for
suggesting that you have caught the habit. And Mr. Vyse? Does he not
matter? That I love Cecil and shall be his wife shortly? A detail of no
importance, I suppose? May I ask what you intend to gain by this exhibition? Well, he amuses me, Either I'm mad, or else he is, and I'm inclined to think it's the
latter. One more fuss through with you, Charlotte. Many thanks. I think,
though, that this is the last. My admirer will hardly trouble me again. Let's go down to them. Mr. Emerson has had to go. I am very sorry about it, I have carefully thought things
over. We are too different. I must ask you to release me, and try to
forget that there ever was such a foolish girl. I haven't had a really good education, for one thing, My Italian trip came too late, and
I am forgetting all that I learnt there. I shall never be able to talk
to your friends, or behave as a wife of yours should. Tired! That is exactly like you. You
always think women don't mean what they say. What if I do? It doesn't prevent me from realizing the truth. I can't
marry you, and you will thank me for saying so some day. There are days when one sees clearly, and this is one of them. Things
must come to a breaking-point some time, and it happens to be to-day. If
you want to know, quite a little thing decided me to speak to you--when
you wouldn't play tennis with Freddy. You can play well enough to make up a four. I thought it abominably
selfish of you. I knew you wouldn't understand, I might have
known there would have been these dreadful explanations. Of course,
it isn't the tennis--that was only the last straw to all I have been
feeling for weeks. Surely it was better not to speak until I felt
certain. Often before I have wondered if
I was fitted for your wife--for instance, in London; and are you fitted
to be my husband? I don't think so. You don't like Freddy, nor my
mother. There was always a lot against our engagement, Cecil, but all
our relations seemed pleased, and we met so often, and it was no good
mentioning it until--well, until all things came to a point. They have
to-day. I see clearly. I must speak. That's all. What's the good of a scene? Don't open the window; and you'd better draw the curtain, too; Freddy
or any one might be outside. I really think we had better
go to bed, if you don't mind. I shall only say things that will make me
unhappy afterwards. As you say it is all too horrible, and it is no good
talking. I did not, I thought I did at first. I am sorry, and ought
to have refused you this last time, too. Because you're the sort
who can't know any one intimately. I don't mean exactly that. But you will question me, though I beg you
not to, and I must say something. It is that, more or less. When we
were only acquaintances, you let me be myself, but now you're always
protecting me. I won't be protected. I will choose
for myself what is ladylike and right. To shield me is an insult. Can't
I be trusted to face the truth but I must get it second-hand through
you? A woman's place! You despise my mother--I know you do--because
she's conventional and bothers over puddings; but, oh goodness! conventional, Cecil, you're that, for you may
understand beautiful things, but you don't know how to use them; and you
wrap yourself up in art and books and music, and would try to wrap up
me. I won't be stifled, not by the most glorious music, for people are
more glorious, and you hide them from me. That's why I break off my
engagement. You were all right as long as you kept to things, but when
you came to people-- True on the whole, Anyhow, those are my reasons for not being your wife. What do you mean by a new voice? If you think I am in love with
someone else, you are very much mistaken. Oh, yes, you do think it. It's your old idea, the idea that has kept
Europe back--I mean the idea that women are always thinking of men. If
a girl breaks off her engagement, everyone says: It's disgusting,
brutal! As if a girl can't break it off for the sake of freedom. All right, Cecil, that will do. Don't apologize to me. It was my
mistake. Of course I will, Good-night, Cecil. Good-bye. That's all right. I'm sorry
about it. Thank you very much for your gentleness. Good-bye, Cecil. I don't think I will, thank you. Yes. Oh he did? Mother, Charlotte, Cecil, Freddy, you, So I hoped other people would think, but they don't seem to. So does mother. Mother minds dreadfully. And Freddy minds. Boys are so odd. How delightful! Going abroad? When do they start? Did Freddy say whether he was driving straight back? Because I do hope he won't go gossiping. Oh,
do tell me more about the Miss Alans! How perfectly splendid of them to
go abroad! Oh, delightful! I wish they'd take me. Oh, not Italy, but Constantinople. I have always longed to go to
Constantinople. Constantinople is practically Asia, isn't it? Oh, that's nothing; I assure you Cissie Villa's nothing to me; I would
give anything to go with them. She MUST spare me! I simply MUST
go away. I have to. Don't you see that I HAVE to go away? I didn't realize at the time--and
of course I want to see Constantinople so particularly. Yes, yes. I knew you'd understand. Yes, of course; to go to Constantinople until they are used to the idea
and everything has calmed down. No, not at all. Cecil was very kind indeed; only--I had better tell
you the whole truth, since you have heard a little--it was that he is
so masterful. I found that he wouldn't let me go my own way. He would
improve me in places where I can't be improved. Cecil won't let a woman
decide for herself--in fact, he daren't. What nonsense I do talk! But
that is the kind of thing. But I must go somewhere! I have been worrying all the
morning, and here comes the very thing. I must! And the time I shall have with
mother, and all the money she spent on me last spring. You all think
much too highly of me. I wish you weren't so kind. I must get away, ever
so far. I must know my own mind and where I want to go. What's that? Thank you, mother; that doesn't matter a
bit. Oh, splendid! Oh, thank you! Mr. Beebe knows my rude ways. It isn't very good, I forget why--harmony or
something. How stupidly you talk! No, I hate seeings-off, That's all right. We just got
through that time. Because I settled with Cecil not to announce it until I left England. I
shall tell them then. It's much pleasanter. How wet it is! Let's turn in
here. Oh, well, let it be shop, then. Let's go to Mudie's. I'll buy a
guide-book. It's only for a few days. Because George Emerson has been bothering me, and if he
hears I've given up Cecil may begin again I do not love George; I broke off my engagement
because I did not love George; I must go to Greece because I do not
love George; it is more important that I should look up gods in the
dictionary than that I should help my mother; everyone else is behaving
very badly. Oh, mother, what rubbish you talk! Of course I'm not tired of Windy
Corner. Half a minute would be nearer. Hush, mother! People will hear you Of course I want to live at home;
but as we are talking about it, I may as well say that I shall want to
be away in the future more than I have been. You see, I come into my
money next year. I've seen the
world so little--I felt so out of things in Italy. I have seen so little
of life; one ought to come up to London more--not a cheap ticket like
to-day, but to stop. I might even share a flat for a little with some
other girl. I want more independence, Perhaps I spoke hastily. Charlotte! I don't know what you mean, mother; Charlotte and I are not the very
least alike. What rubbish! And if you dislike Charlotte so, it's rather a pity you
asked her to stop. I warned you about her; I begged you, implored you
not to, but of course it was not listened to. I beg your pardon? My point is that you oughtn't to have
asked Charlotte to stop. I wish you would keep to the point. The
crush when Charlotte gets in will be abominable, We shall have to sit three a side, because the trees drop, and
yet it isn't raining. Oh, for a little air! He has not told--he has not told. CAN'T we have the hood down? Is that house to let again, Powell? Have they gone? They have gone, then? No church for me, thank you. I have no wish to discuss Italy or any
subject connected with your son. He has misbehaved himself from the first. Why, he has behaved abominably, I am glad he is sorry. Do
you know what he did? No, of course, is much too strong. I am sorry I used it about your son. I
think I will go to church, after all. My mother and my cousin have gone.
I shall not be so very late-- What was that? I don't understand. But, Mr. Emerson--MR. EMERSON--what are you talking about? I don't know, I don't understand this sort of thing. I
was not meant to understand it. Oh, how terrible! I am so sorry, but it is no good discussing this affair. I am deeply
sorry about it. Mr. Emerson, don't leave at least, not on my account.
I am going to Greece. Don't leave your comfortable house. Yes, but you won't go back to London. It's absurd. Oh, Mr. Emerson you mustn't. I've been
bother enough to the world by now. I can't have you moving out of your
house when you like it, and perhaps losing money through it--all on my
account. You must stop! I am just going to Greece. So you must stop. You won't talk about this business, I know. I can
trust you both. I shouldn't want-- No, please sit still. I think I will sit in the carriage. Not a bit, Not till January, it wasn't, No. Thank you. I think so; I'll see. Very well, thank you. I--I did. He is not going, I made a slip. Mr. Vyse does stop
behind in England. I--I had to. How dare you! Oh, how like a man!--I mean, to suppose that a woman is always thinking
about a man. You've frightened me, Cecil--Mr. Beebe--the ticket's
bought--everything. I'm caught in
the tangle. I must suffer and grow old away from him. I cannot break the
whole of life for his sake. They trusted me. Give George my love--once only. Tell him No--they are in the hall--oh, please not, Mr. Emerson--they trust me-- I shall never marry him, Mr. Beebe--I have misled you--I have misled myself-- Mr. Beebe, could you help me? You kiss me, You kiss me. I will try. never exactly understood, how he
managed to strengthen her. It was as if he had made her see the whole of
everything at once. No, it isn't, because it is the room I had, and I had your
father's room. I forget why; Charlotte made me, for some reason. George, you baby, get up. Oh, bother Charlotte, What can such people be
made of? Nonsense! Now you get up off the cold floor, or you'll be starting rheumatism
next, and you stop laughing and being so silly. Just a line from Freddy. San Miniato. I'll just finish your sock. Not yet. Silly boy! He thinks he's being dignified. He knew we should go off in
the spring--he has known it for six months--that if mother wouldn't give
her consent we should take the thing into our own hands. They had fair
warning, and now he calls it an elopement. Ridiculous boy-- But it will all come right in the end. He has to build us both up
from the beginning again. I wish, though, that Cecil had not turned so
cynical about women. He has, for the second time, quite altered. Why
will men have theories about women? I haven't any about men. I wish,
too, that Mr. Beebe-- He will never forgive us--I mean, he will never be interested in us
again. I wish that he did not influence them so much at Windy Corner. I
wish he hadn't--But if we act the truth, the people who really love us
are sure to come back to us in the long run. No, don't be
rude to him. Mr.
Eager and Charlotte, dreadful frozen Charlotte. How cruel she would be
to a man like that! But this room reminds me of Charlotte. How horrible to grow old in
Charlotte's way! To think that evening at the rectory that she shouldn't
have heard your father was in the house. For she would have stopped me
going in, and he was the only person alive who could have made me see
sense. You couldn't have made me. When I am very happy I remember on how little it all hangs. If Charlotte had only
known, she would have stopped me going in, and I should have gone to
silly Greece, and become different for ever. Oh, no, she didn't see him. She was upstairs with old Mrs. Beebe, don't
you remember, and then went straight to the church. She said so. How like Charlotte to undo her work by a feeble
muddle at the last moment. Mean what? Lascia, prego, lascia.
Siamo sposati. Niente. Mean what, George? It is impossible, No--it is just possible. 

Mr. Emerson DIALOGUES
I have a view, I have a view. This is my son, his name's George. He has a view
too. What I mean, is that you can have our rooms, and we'll
have yours. We'll change. Why? But why? Women like looking at a view; men don't. George, persuade them! Hateful bishop! Hard in life, hard in death. Go out into the sunshine,
little boy, and kiss your hand to the sun, for that is where you ought
to be. Intolerable bishop! Look at him! Here's a mess: a baby hurt,
cold, and frightened! But what else can you expect from a church? You are a clever woman, You have done more than
all the relics in the world. I am not of your creed, but I do believe in
those who make their fellow-creatures happy. There is no scheme of the
universe-- That woman understands everything, But what
are you doing here? Are you doing the church? Are you through with the
church? Why shouldn't you? Baedeker? I'm glad it's THAT you minded. It's worth
minding, the loss of a Baedeker. THAT'S worth minding. My dear, I think that you are repeating what
you have heard older people say. You are pretending to be touchy; but
you are not really. Stop being so tiresome, and tell me instead what
part of the church you want to see. To take you to it will be a real
pleasure. No! Remember nothing of the sort! Built by faith indeed! That simply means
the workmen weren't paid properly. And as for the frescoes, I see no
truth in them. Look at that fat man in blue! He must weigh as much as I
do, and he is shooting into the sky like an air balloon. Now, did this happen, or didn't it? Yes or no? You will never go up, You and I, dear boy, will
lie at peace in the earth that bore us, and our names will disappear as
surely as our work survives. Stop! There's plenty of room for us all. Stop! George, I do believe that clergyman is the Brixton curate. Then I had better speak to him and remind him who I am. It's that Mr.
Eager. Why did he go? Did we talk too loud? How vexatious. I shall go
and say we are sorry. Hadn't I better? Then perhaps he will come back. But we have spoilt the pleasure of I don't know how many people. They
won't come back. Don't let us spoil yours, Have you looked at
those saints? Why will he look at that fresco? I saw nothing in
it. So you ought. A baby is worth a dozen saints. And my baby's worth the
whole of Paradise, and as far as I can see he lives in Hell. In Hell, He's unhappy. How can he be unhappy when he is strong and alive? What more is one
to give him? And think how he has been brought up--free from all the
superstition and ignorance that lead men to hate one another in the name
of God. With such an education as that, I thought he was bound to grow
up happy. What are we to do with him? He comes out for his holiday to
Italy, and behaves--like that; like the little child who ought to have
been playing, and who hurt himself upon the tombstone. Eh? What did you
say? Now don't be stupid over this. I don't require you to fall in love with
my boy, but I do think you might try and understand him. You are nearer
his age, and if you let yourself go I am sure you are sensible. You
might help me. He has known so few women, and you have the time.
You stop here several weeks, I suppose? But let yourself go. You are
inclined to get muddled, if I may judge from last night. Let yourself
go. Pull out from the depths those thoughts that you do not understand,
and spread them out in the sunlight and know the meaning of them. By
understanding George you may learn to understand yourself. It will be
good for both of you. I only know what it is that's wrong with him; not why it is. The old trouble; things won't fit. The things of the universe. It is quite true. They don't. George and I both know this, but why does it distress him? We know that
we come from the winds, and that we shall return to them; that all life
is perhaps a knot, a tangle, a blemish in the eternal smoothness. But
why should this make us unhappy? Let us rather love one another, and
work and rejoice. I don't believe in this world sorrow. Then make my boy think like us. Make him realize that by the side of
the everlasting Why there is a Yes--a transitory Yes if you like, but a
Yes. Poor girl! Poor girl! Leave them alone, Do we find happiness so often that we should turn it off the
box when it happens to sit there? To be driven by lovers--A king might
envy us, and if we part them it's more like sacrilege than anything I
know. It is not victory, It is defeat. You have parted
two people who were happy. We have tried to buy what cannot be bought with money. He has bargained
to drive us, and he is doing it. We have no rights over his soul. That I deny. It was as restful as sleeping. Aha! he is jolting us now.
Can you wonder? He would like to throw us out, and most certainly he is
justified. And if I were superstitious I'd be frightened of the girl,
too. It doesn't do to injure young people. Have you ever heard of
Lorenzo de Medici? The Lord knows. Possibly he does know, for I refer to Lorenzo the poet.
He wrote a line--so I heard yesterday--which runs like this: 'Don't go
fighting against the Spring.' The point is, we have warred with it. Look. Fifty miles of Spring, and we've come up to admire them. Do you suppose
there's any difference between Spring in nature and Spring in man? But
there we go, praising the one and condemning the other as improper,
ashamed that the same laws work eternally through both. George! Ask your driver which way George went. The
boy may lose his way. He may be killed. He may be killed! He may be killed! Hullo! I'll be down in a minute. I tell you that they shall be, Good afternoon, Mr. Beebe. I tell you they shall
be comrades, and George thinks the same. The Garden of Eden, which you
place in the past, is really yet to come. We shall enter it when we no
longer despise our bodies. In this--not in other things--we men are ahead. We despise the body
less than women do. But not until we are comrades shall we enter the
garden. I believed in a return to Nature once. But how can we return to
Nature when we have never been with her? To-day, I believe that we must
discover Nature. After many conquests we shall attain simplicity. It is
our heritage. How do you do? Very glad to see you, and that you are taking George for
a bathe. Very glad to hear that your sister is going to marry. Marriage
is a duty. I am sure that she will be happy, for we know Mr. Vyse, too.
He has been most kind. He met us by chance in the National Gallery, and
arranged everything about this delightful house. Though I hope I have
not vexed Sir Harry Otway. I have met so few Liberal landowners, and
I was anxious to compare his attitude towards the game laws with the
Conservative attitude. Ah, this wind! You do well to bathe. Yours is a
glorious country, Honeychurch! CALL, my lad? Who taught us that drawing-room twaddle? Call on your
grandmother! Listen to the wind among the pines! Yours is a glorious
country. Yes, go and bathe, George. Why do you dawdle talking? Bring them back
to tea. Bring back some milk, cakes, honey. The change will do you good.
George has been working very hard at his office. I can't believe he's
well. Very much, We find, though,
that the Miss Alans were coming, and that we have turned them out. Women
mind such a thing. I am very much upset about it. So George says. He says that the Miss Alans must go to the wall. Yet it
does seem so unkind. George mind tennis on Sunday! George, after his education, distinguish
between Sunday-- Yes, indeed! George, don't go, George has been in such good
spirits today, and I am sure he will end by coming up this afternoon. Oh, Miss Honeychurch, that you should come! Miss Honeychurch, dear, we are so sorry! George is so sorry! He thought
he had a right to try. I cannot blame my boy, and yet I wish he had told
me first. He ought not to have tried. I knew nothing about it at all. But you must not scold him. I taught him, to trust in love. I said: I said: True, everlastingly true, though my day
is over, and though there is the result. Poor boy! He is so sorry!
He said he knew it was madness when you brought your cousin in; that
whatever you felt you did not mean. Yet Miss Honeychurch, do you remember Italy? But you do remember it? I only was told that he loved you last Sunday. I never could judge
behaviour. I--I--suppose he has. Not 'abominably, He only tried when he
should not have tried. You have all you want, Miss Honeychurch: you are
going to marry the man you love. Do not go out of George's life saying
he is abominable. Especially as he has gone under, Gone under naturally. As his mother did. When I wouldn't have George baptized, And she agreed that baptism was nothing, but he caught that fever
when he was twelve and she turned round. She thought it a judgement. Oh, horrible, when we had given up that sort of thing and
broken away from her parents. Oh, horrible--worst of all--worse than
death, when you have made a little clearing in the wilderness, planted
your little garden, let in your sunlight, and then the weeds creep in
again! A judgement! And our boy had typhoid because no clergyman had
dropped water on him in church! Is it possible, Miss Honeychurch? Shall
we slip back into the darkness for ever? But Mr. Eager--he came when I was out, and acted according to his
principles. I don't blame him or any one... but by the time George
was well she was ill. He made her think about sin, and she went under
thinking about it. He was not baptized, I did hold firm. My boy shall go back to the
earth untouched. Oh--last Sunday. George last Sunday--no,
not ill: just gone under. He is never ill. But he is his mother's son.
Her eyes were his, and she had that forehead that I think so beautiful,
and he will not think it worth while to live. It was always touch and
go. He will live; but he will not think it worth while to live. He will
never think anything worth while. You remember that church at Florence? After you left Florence--horrible. Then we took the house here, and he
goes bathing with your brother, and became better. You saw him bathing? Then there came something about a novel. I didn't follow it at all; I
had to hear so much, and he minded telling me; he finds me too old. Ah,
well, one must have failures. George comes down to-morrow, and takes me
up to his London rooms. He can't bear to be about here, and I must be
where he is. How good
everyone is! And look at Mr. Beebe housing me--came over this morning
and heard I was going! Here I am so comfortable with a fire. I must be with George; I must make him care to live, and down here he
can't. He says the thought of seeing you and of hearing about you--I am
not justifying him: I am only saying what has happened. All the way to Greece? To Greece? Certainly you can. We either have you in our lives, or leave you to the
life that you have chosen. I suppose Mr. Vyse is very angry with George? No, it was wrong of
George to try. We have pushed our beliefs too far. I fancy that we
deserve sorrow. Miss Honeychurch, you do sound tired. But you are, and there's a look of George about you. And what were you
saying about going abroad? Greece Greece; but
you were to be married this year, I thought. I suppose that Mr. Vyse is going with you. I hope--it isn't because
George spoke that you are both going? I hope that you will enjoy Greece with Mr. Vyse. You are leaving
him? You are leaving the man you love? Why, Miss Honeychurch, why? My dear, I am worried about you. It seems to
me that you are in a muddle. Take an old man's word; there's nothing worse than a muddle in all the
world. It is easy to face Death and Fate, and the things that sound
so dreadful. It is on my muddles that I look back with horror--on the
things that I might have avoided. We can help one another but little. I
used to think I could teach young people the whole of life, but I know
better now, and all my teaching of George has come down to this: beware
of muddle. Do you remember in that church, when you pretended to be
annoyed with me and weren't? Do you remember before, when you refused
the room with the view? Those were muddles--little, but ominous--and I
am fearing that you are in one now. Don't trust me,
Miss Honeychurch. Though life is very glorious, it is difficult. wrote a friend of mine, I think he puts it well. Man has to pick up the use of his
functions as he goes along--especially the function of Love. That's it; that's what I mean. You love George! But you do, You love the
boy body and soul, plainly, directly, as he loves you, and no other word
expresses it. You won't marry the other man for his sake. But you are. You're shocked, but I mean to shock you. It's the only hope at times. I
can reach you no other way. You must marry, or your life will be wasted.
You have gone too far to retreat. I have no time for the tenderness, and
the comradeship, and the poetry, and the things that really matter, and
for which you marry. I know that, with George, you will find them, and
that you love him. Then be his wife. He is already part of you. Though
you fly to Greece, and never see him again, or forget his very name,
George will work in your thoughts till you die. It isn't possible to
love and to part. You will wish that it was. You can transmute love,
ignore it, muddle it, but you can never pull it out of you. I know by
experience that the poets are right: love is eternal. I only wish poets would say this, too: love is of the body; not
the body, but of the body. Ah! the misery that would be saved if we
confessed that! Ah! for a little directness to liberate the soul! Your
soul, dear Lucy! I hate the word now, because of all the cant with which
superstition has wrapped it round. But we have souls. I cannot say how
they came nor whither they go, but we have them, and I see you ruining
yours. I cannot bear it. It is again the darkness creeping in; it
is hell. What nonsense I have talked--how
abstract and remote! And I have made you cry! Dear girl, forgive my
prosiness; marry my boy. When I think what life is, and how seldom love
is answered by love--Marry him; it is one of the moments for which the
world was made. Then, Lucy-- Lucy-- But why should they, when you have deceived them? You're not worthy of their trust. I was saying, why should you trust her when she deceived you? I mean she has pretended to you that she did not love George. They have
loved one another all along. It is not rubbish! It's the part of people
that you don't understand. What's wrong with the boy? Now it is all dark. Now Beauty and Passion seem never to have existed.
I know. But remember the mountains over Florence and the view. Ah, dear,
if I were George, and gave you one kiss, it would make you brave. You
have to go cold into a battle that needs warmth, out into the muddle
that you have made yourself; and your mother and all your friends
will despise you, oh, my darling, and rightly, if it is ever right to
despise. George still dark, all the tussle and the misery without a word
from him. Am I justified? Yes, for we
fight for more than Love or Pleasure; there is Truth. Truth counts,
Truth does count. 

George Emerson DIALOGUES
It's so obvious they should have the rooms, There's
nothing else to say. My father, is in his bath, so you cannot thank him
personally. But any message given by you to me will be given by me to
him as soon as he comes out. Yes, why shouldn't you come by yourself? If you've no Baedeker, you'd better join us. Remember, the facts about this church of Santa Croce;
how it was built by faith in the full fervour of medievalism, before
any taint of the Renaissance had appeared. Observe how Giotto in these
frescoes--now, unhappily, ruined by restoration--is untroubled by the
snares of anatomy and perspective. Could anything be more majestic, more
pathetic, beautiful, true? How little, we feel, avails knowledge and
technical cleverness against a man who truly feels! It happened like this, if it happened at all. I would rather go up to
heaven by myself than be pushed by cherubs; and if I got there I should
like my friends to lean out of it, just as they do here. Some of the people can only see the empty grave, not the saint, whoever
he is, going up. It did happen like that, if it happened at all. Perhaps he is. I
don't remember. He will not come back, My father has that effect on nearly everyone, He
will try to be kind. Because we think it improves our characters. But he is kind to people
because he loves them; and they find him out, and are offended, or
frightened. Tact! Were you snubbed? Miss Bartlett. In the nave. You fainted. How are you now? Then let us come home. There's no point in our stopping. What photographs? Miss Honeychurch! You sit still; you aren't fit to go home alone. No, you aren't. You'd go openly if you were. Then I don't fetch your photographs. The man is dead--the man is probably dead; sit
down till you are rested. And
don't move till I come back. Things I didn't want, Well? I didn't know what to do with them, They were covered with blood. There! I'm glad I've told you; and all
the time we were making conversation I was wondering what to do with
them. They've gone. I did mind them so, and one is so foolish, it seemed better
that they should go out to the sea--I don't know; I may just mean that
they frightened me. For something
tremendous has happened; I must face it without getting muddled. It
isn't exactly that a man has died. It has happened, and I mean to find out what it is. I want to ask you something before we go in. I nearly fainted myself, Oh, all right. I'm afraid I don't. Your behaviour? Oh, yes, all right--all right. I don't. I shall probably want to live. I shall want to live, I say. the railway. Oh, all right, I did not. Miss Lavish told me. It is. I have reflected. It is Fate. Everything is Fate. We are flung
together by Fate, drawn apart by Fate--flung together, drawn apart. The
twelve winds blow us--we settle nothing-- Italy. National Gallery. It is Fate that I am here, But you can call it
Italy if it makes you less unhappy. Water's water, Is it worth it? Water's not so bad, Apooshoo, kouf. Socker rules, Goal! Hullo! Hullo, Miss Honeychurch! Hullo! Our landlord was told that we should be a different type of person, He
thought we should be artistic. He is disappointed. And I wonder whether we ought to write to the Miss Alans and offer to
give it up. What do you think? There is only a certain amount of kindness in the world, There is a certain amount of kindness, just as there is a certain
amount of light, We cast a shadow
on something wherever we stand, and it is no good moving from place to
place to save things; because the shadow always follows. Choose a place
where you won't do harm--yes, choose a place where you won't do very
much harm, and stand in it for all you are worth, facing the sunshine. Eh--? No, I didn't, He behaved that way to me. It is his
philosophy. Only he starts life with it; and I have tried the Note of
Interrogation first. I know, I--I'll come up
to tennis if I can manage it, I am not bad. I shall want to live, I tell you. You--and are
you tired? Do you mind being beaten? I never said I was. You didn't attend. Of course I do. I saw her the day I arrived at Summer
Street. It was she who told me that you lived here. I never notice much difference in views. Because they're all alike. Because all that matters in them is distance
and air. My father says
that there is only one perfect view--the view of the sky straight over
our heads, and that all these views on earth are but bungled copies of
it. He told us another day that views are really crowds--crowds of trees
and houses and hills--and are bound to resemble each other, like human
crowds--and that the power they have over us is sometimes supernatural,
for the same reason. For a crowd is more than the people who make it up. Something gets
added to it--no one knows how--just as something has got added to those
hills. No, he isn't well. None. Why? My mother, I was meaning. Am I really to go? No--nothing to eat. What-- But I can't-- You don't mean, you don't
mean that you are going to marry that man? You cannot live with Vyse. He's
only for an acquaintance. He is for society and cultivated talk. He
should know no one intimately, least of all a woman. Have you ever talked to Vyse without feeling tired? No, but have you ever? He is the sort who are all right so long as
they keep to things--books, pictures--but kill when they come to
people. That's why I'll speak out through all this muddle even now. It's
shocking enough to lose you in any case, but generally a man must
deny himself joy, and I would have held back if your Cecil had been a
different person. I would never have let myself go. But I saw him first
in the National Gallery, when he winced because my father mispronounced
the names of great painters. Then he brings us here, and we find it
is to play some silly trick on a kind neighbour. That is the man all
over--playing tricks on people, on the most sacred form of life that
he can find. Next, I meet you together, and find him protecting and
teaching you and your mother to be shocked, when it was for YOU to
settle whether you were shocked or no. Cecil all over again. He daren't
let a woman decide. He's the type who's kept Europe back for a thousand
years. Every moment of his life he's forming you, telling you what's
charming or amusing or ladylike, telling you what a man thinks womanly;
and you, you of all women, listen to his voice instead of to your own.
So it was at the Rectory, when I met you both again; so it has been
the whole of this afternoon. Therefore--not because the book made me do that, and I wish to goodness I had more
self-control. I'm not ashamed. I don't apologize. But it has frightened
you, and you may not have noticed that I love you. Or would you have
told me to go, and dealt with a tremendous thing so lightly? But
therefore--therefore I settled to fight him. Yes, I have, I'm the same kind of
brute at bottom. This desire to govern a woman--it lies very deep, and
men and women must fight it together before they shall enter the garden.
But I do love you surely in a better way than he does. Yes--really in a better way. I want you to have your own thoughts even
when I hold you in my arms. Lucy, be
quick--there's no time for us to talk now--come to me as you came in the
spring, and afterwards I will be gentle and explain. I have cared
for you since that man died. I cannot live without you, I
thought; but I meet you again when all
the world is glorious water and sun. As you came through the wood I
saw that nothing else mattered. I called. I wanted to live and have my
chance of joy. It is our last chance. I shall do all that I can. You wouldn't stop us this
second time if you understood, I have been into the dark, and
I am going back into it, unless you will try to understand. It is being young, It is being certain that Lucy cares for me
really. It is that love and youth matter intellectually. Why shouldn't I be a baby? Same stuff as parsons are made of. Quite right. It is nonsense. Why shouldn't I laugh? What's there to cry at? Kiss me here. Any letters? Now kiss me here; then here. Lucy, you come and look at the cypresses; and the church, whatever its
name is, still shows. Anything good in Freddy's letter? What does he say? You may well wish that. Perhaps. Well, I acted the truth--the
only thing I did do--and you came back to me. So possibly you know. Nonsense with that sock. Oh, bother that man! Look at the lights going over the bridge. But she did know, she did see my father, surely. He said
so. My father, saw her, and I prefer
his word. He was dozing by the study fire, and he opened his eyes,
and there was Miss Bartlett. A few minutes before you came in. She was
turning to go as he woke up. He didn't speak to her. It's clear that she knew. Then, why
did she risk the meeting? She knew he was there, and yet she went to
church. Or did she mean it? Is it this? Is this possible? I'll put a marvel to you.
That your cousin has always hoped. That from the very first moment we
met, she hoped, far down in her mind, that we should be like this--of
course, very far down. That she fought us on the surface, and yet she
hoped. I can't explain her any other way. Can you? Look how she kept me
alive in you all the summer; how she gave you no peace; how month after
month she became more eccentric and unreliable. The sight of us haunted
her--or she couldn't have described us as she did to her friend. There
are details--it burnt. I read the book afterwards. She is not frozen,
Lucy, she is not withered up all through. She tore us apart twice, but
in the rectory that evening she was given one more chance to make us
happy. We can never make friends with her or thank her. But I do believe
that, far down in her heart, far below all speech and behaviour, she is
glad. 

Mr. Beebe DIALOGUES
Quite right, I move into the Rectory at Summer
Street next June. I am lucky to be appointed to such a charming
neighbourhood. I am eating it, thank you, and enjoying it. Don't neglect the country round, The first fine afternoon drive up to Fiesole, and round by
Settignano, or something of that sort. Emerson. We are friendly--as one is in pensions. You acted very naturally, All the same, I don't think much harm would have
come of accepting. He is rather a peculiar man. I think he would not take advantage of your acceptance, nor expect you
to show gratitude. He has the merit--if it is one--of saying exactly
what he means. He has rooms he does not value, and he thinks you would
value them. He no more thought of putting you under an obligation than
he thought of being polite. It is so difficult--at least, I find it
difficult--to understand people who speak the truth. I think he is; nice and tiresome. I differ from him on almost every
point of any importance, and so, I expect--I may say I hope--you will
differ. But his is a type one disagrees with rather than deplores. When
he first came here he not unnaturally put people's backs up. He has no
tact and no manners--I don't mean by that that he has bad manners--and
he will not keep his opinions to himself. We nearly complained about
him to our depressing Signora, but I am glad to say we thought better of
it. I hardly know George, for he hasn't learnt to talk yet. He seems a nice
creature, and I think he has brains. Of course, he has all his father's
mannerisms, and it is quite possible that he, too, may be a Socialist. Not at all, I never suggested that. Miss Bartlett, it's all right about the rooms. I'm so glad.
Mr. Emerson was talking about it in the smoking-room, and knowing what
I did, I encouraged him to make the offer again. He has let me come and
ask you. He would be so pleased. I fear, that I have been officious. I
must apologize for my interference. Mr. Emerson is engaged, but here is his son instead. In half an hour or so your rooms will be ready, Who is she? Introduce me. My sermon? Why ever did she listen to it? If Miss Honeychurch ever takes to live as she plays, it will be very
exciting both for us and for her. Doesn't Mrs. Honeychurch like music? Of course, What about music? Miss Lavish has led your cousin astray. She hopes to find the true
Italy in the wet I believe. They do say so. It will be a novel, dealing with modern Italy.
Let me refer you for an account to Miss Catharine Alan, who uses words
herself more admirably than any one I know. The two ladies, at all events, have made it up. I quite agree with you, Miss Alan. The Italians
are a most unpleasant people. They pry everywhere, they see everything,
and they know what we want before we know it ourselves. We are at their
mercy. They read our thoughts, they foretell our desires. From the
cab-driver down to--to Giotto, they turn us inside out, and I resent
it. Yet in their heart of hearts they are--how superficial! They have no
conception of the intellectual life. How right is Signora Bertolini, who
exclaimed to me the other day: That belongs to Lavish. A good fellow, Lavish,
but I wish she'd start a pipe. Let me finish the story, Miss Lavish tried Miss Pole, myself, everyone, and finally said: She went. At the end of five minutes she returned
unobtrusively with a green baize board, and began playing patience. No one knows. No one will ever know. Miss Lavish will never dare to
tell, and Mr. Emerson does not think it worth telling. I consider that you are bound to class him as nice, Miss Alan, after
that business of the violets. I wish we could. Unluckily I have letters. If you do want to go out
alone, won't you be better on your feet? She oughtn't really to go at all, and she knows it. I put it down to too much
Beethoven. Too much
Beethoven. She will find it difficult. For that man has murdered his wife in the
sight of God. All the way? He will be hours, Mr. Eager! We want your assistance. Will you
interpret for us? I've come for tea, Mr. Vyse. Do you suppose that I shall get it? Pfui! I've come for tea and for gossip. Isn't this news? I met Sir Harry Otway as I came up; I have every reason to hope that I
am first in the field. He has bought Cissie and Albert from Mr. Flack! Unpardonable question! To have stopped a week at Windy Corner and not
to have met Cissie and Albert, the semi-detached villas that have been
run up opposite the church! I'll set Mrs. Honeychurch after you. Let me see, Mr. Vyse--I forget--what is your profession? You are very fortunate, It is a wonderful
opportunity, the possession of leisure. Oh, Freddy's a good sort, isn't he? Where are the others? I insist on extracting
tea before evening service. I know the faults of Mary. She leaves the dust-pans standing on the
stairs. Ah, he has too many. No one but his mother can remember the faults of
Freddy. Try the faults of Miss Honeychurch; they are not innumerable. I quite agree. At present she has none. I'm not cynical. I'm only thinking of my pet theory about Miss
Honeychurch. Does it seem reasonable that she should play so
wonderfully, and live so quietly? I suspect that one day she will be
wonderful in both. The water-tight compartments in her will break down,
and music and life will mingle. Then we shall have her heroically good,
heroically bad--too heroic, perhaps, to be good or bad. Well, I must say I've only seen her at Tunbridge Wells, where she was
not wonderful, and at Florence. Since I came to Summer Street she has
been away. You saw her, didn't you, at Rome and in the Alps. Oh, I
forgot; of course, you knew her before. No, she wasn't wonderful in
Florence either, but I kept on expecting that she would be. I could as easily tell you what tune she'll play next. There was simply
the sense that she had found wings, and meant to use them. I can show
you a beautiful picture in my Italian diary: Miss Honeychurch as a
kite, Miss Bartlett holding the string. Picture number two: the string
breaks. No. I mightn't have seen Miss Honeychurch rise, but I should certainly
have heard Miss Bartlett fall. Broken? What do you mean? I am sorry; I must apologize. I had no idea you were intimate with her,
or I should never have talked in this flippant, superficial way. Mr.
Vyse, you ought to have stopped me. Not that. But you ought to have stopped me. I know Miss Honeychurch
only a little as time goes. Perhaps I oughtn't to have discussed her so
freely with any one; certainly not with you. No, I have said nothing indiscreet. I foresaw at Florence that her
quiet, uneventful childhood must end, and it has ended. I realized dimly
enough that she might take some momentous step. She has taken it. She
has learnt--you will let me talk freely, as I have begun freely--she has
learnt what it is to love: the greatest lesson, some people will tell
you, that our earthly life provides. She has
learnt through you, let it be your care that her knowledge is profitable to
her. Indeed I have! Mrs. Honeychurch, I'm going to do what I am always supposed to do, but
generally I'm too shy. I want to invoke every kind of blessing on
them, grave and gay, great and small. I want them all their lives to be
supremely good and supremely happy as husband and wife, as father and
mother. And now I want my tea. But they really are coming now, I wrote to Miss
Teresa a few days ago--she was wondering how often the butcher called,
and my reply of once a month must have impressed her favourably. They
are coming. I heard from them this morning. The name of this ball is Vittoria
Corombona, please. I wish the Miss Alans could see this, They have taken Cissie Villa. The Emersons who were at Florence, do you mean? No, I don't suppose it
will prove to be them. It is probably a long cry from them to friends
of Mr. Vyse's. Oh, Mrs. Honeychurch, the oddest people! The queerest
people! For our part we liked them, didn't we? There was a great scene over some violets. They picked violets and
filled all the vases in the room of these very Miss Alans who have
failed to come to Cissie Villa. Poor little ladies! So shocked and so
pleased. It used to be one of Miss Catharine's great stories. it began. They found the whole room a mass of
blue--vases and jugs--and the story ends with It is all very difficult. Yes, I always connect those
Florentine Emersons with violets. These particular Emersons consisted of a father and a son--the son
a goodly, if not a good young man; not a fool, I fancy, but very
immature--pessimism, et cetera. Our special joy was the father--such a
sentimental darling, and people declared he had murdered his wife. Suppose we go and hinder those new people opposite for a little. They might amuse you. I suggested we should hinder them, They are worth
it. Hullo! I've brought someone to see you. I fancy they know how to read--a rare accomplishment. What have they
got? Byron. Exactly. A Shropshire Lad. Never heard of it. The Way of
All Flesh. Never heard of it. Gibbon. Hullo! dear George reads German.
Um--um--Schopenhauer, Nietzsche, and so we go on. Well, I suppose your
generation knows its own business, Honeychurch. I know. Isn't it jolly? I like that. I'm certain that's the old man's
doing. Surely you agree? Pictures! Giotto--they got that at Florence, I'll be bound. Oh, by-the-by, did Miss Honeychurch enjoy London? I suppose she had a good time? That's good hearing. So will you. What on earth are those people doing upstairs? Emerson--we think we'll
come another time. Let me introduce Mr. Honeychurch, a neighbour. That's the best conversational opening I've ever heard. But I'm afraid
it will only act between men. Can you picture a lady who has been
introduced to another lady by a third lady opening civilities with 'How
do you do? Come and have a bathe'? And yet you will tell me that the
sexes are equal. We are to raise ladies to our level? Let me introduce Mr. Honeychurch, whose sister you will remember at
Florence. Mr. Emerson, he will call, I shall call; you or your son will return
our calls before ten days have elapsed. I trust that you have realized
about the ten days' interval. It does not count that I helped you with
the stair-eyes yesterday. It does not count that they are going to bathe
this afternoon. And what a coincidence that you should meet Mr. Vyse! Did you realize
that you would find all the Pension Bertolini down here? When I was a young man, I always meant to write a 'History of
Coincidence.' Though, as a matter of fact, coincidences are much rarer than we
suppose. For example, it isn't purely coincidentally that you are here
now, when one comes to reflect. You have not reflected at all, And where did you meet Mr. Vyse, who is going to marry Miss
Honeychurch? Looking at Italian art. There you are, and yet you talk of coincidence
and Fate. You naturally seek out things Italian, and so do we and our
friends. This narrows the field immeasurably we meet again in it. And so for this and for other reasons my 'History of Coincidence' is
still to write. We are all so glad that you
have come. Oh, good! It's distinctly successful, as ponds go, No apologies
are necessary for the pond. Aren't those masses of willow-herb splendid? I love willow-herb in
seed. What's the name of this aromatic plant? These abrupt changes of vegetation--this little spongeous tract of
water plants, and on either side of it all the growths are tough or
brittle--heather, bracken, hurts, pines. Very charming, very charming. I may as well wash too Take care my watch! Take care my hat! No, that's enough, Freddy. Dress now. No, I say! That'll do! Hi! Steady on! I see people coming you fellows! Hi! hi! LADIES! A nice fellow, He will work off his
crudities in time. I rather mistrust young men who slip into life
gracefully. Yes, He is waking up. So you're off for a minute, Mr. Vyse? I was coming to show you this delightful letter from those friends
of Miss Honeychurch. Isn't it wonderful? Isn't it
romance? Most certainly they will go to Constantinople. They are taken
in a snare that cannot fail. They will end by going round the world. Isn't Romance capricious! I never notice it in you young people; you
do nothing but play lawn tennis, and say that romance is dead, while the
Miss Alans are struggling with all the weapons of propriety against the
terrible thing. So
they call it out of decency, but in their hearts they want a pension
with magic windows opening on the foam of perilous seas in fairyland
forlorn! No ordinary view will content the Miss Alans. They want the
Pension Keats. You have never met these Miss Alans, have you, Mr. Vyse? Then you don't see the wonder of this Greek visit. I haven't been
to Greece myself, and don't mean to go, and I can't imagine any of my
friends going. It is altogether too big for our little lot. Don't you
think so? Italy is just about as much as we can manage. Italy is heroic,
but Greece is godlike or devilish--I am not sure which, and in either
case absolutely out of our suburban focus. All right, Freddy--I am
not being clever, upon my word I am not--I took the idea from another
fellow; and give me those matches when you've done with them. I was saying, if
our poor little Cockney lives must have a background, let it be Italian.
Big enough in all conscience. The ceiling of the Sistine Chapel for
me. There the contrast is just as much as I can realize. But not the
Parthenon, not the frieze of Phidias at any price; and here comes the
victoria. But when-- Perhaps they won't want me down there. Thank goodness! It was the one foolish thing she ever
did. Oh, what a glorious riddance! Come for a walk with me, You have worried them as much
as they can stand. Mrs. Honeychurch, I only called in aimlessly. I shall
take her up to tea at the Beehive Tavern, if I may. It is terrible, this havoc among the flowers, Perhaps we ought to send Miss Honeychurch down to her mother. Or will
she come with us? Don't be a prig, Go and put on your boots. How do you do? Miss Bartlett and Minnie are coming with me to tea at
the Beehive. Would you come too? No, I didn't suppose you would care to much. How delicate those Sonatas are! Miss Honeychurch! I met them on the hill. Your brother told me. I needn't say that it will go no further. If you'll let me say so, I am very glad, and I am certain that you have
done the right thing. I could see that Miss Bartlett thought it unwise. I am very sorry for that, Still, Freddy never hit it off with Vyse much, did he? I gathered that
he disliked the engagement, and felt it might separate him from you. I have had an
absurd letter from Miss Alan. That was really what brought me over. I
thought it might amuse you all. Next week, I gather. No, he didn't. I want them to start from Venice, and go in a cargo steamer down the
Illyrian coast! Has Italy filled you with the fever of travel? Perhaps George Emerson
is right. He says that with Delphi, perhaps, if the roads
are safe. I didn't realize that you and the Miss Alans were still such friends,
after Cissie Villa. Would your mother spare you again so soon? You have scarcely been home
three months. You mean that since you have broken off your engagement you feel-- I am afraid it has been a bothersome business, It is what I gathered from my own observation of Mr. Vyse; it is what I
gather from all that I have known of you. I do sympathize and agree
most profoundly. I agree so much that you must let me make one little
criticism: Is it worth while rushing off to Greece? Come along; tea, tea, tea, She is playing again, One is very thankful that she has such a resource. She is evidently
much worried, as, of course, she ought to be. I know all about it. The
marriage was so near that it must have been a hard struggle before she
could wind herself up to speak. she might yet reveal depths of strangeness, if not of
meaning. I wonder. Of course, Miss
Honeychurch will make the fact public in her own way, and when she
chooses. Freddy only told me because he knew she would not mind. Quite so. Exactly. Have you heard from any Bertolini people lately? I believe
you keep up with Miss Lavish. It is odd how we of that pension,
who seemed such a fortuitous collection, have been working into one
another's lives. Two, three, four, six of us--no, eight; I had forgotten
the Emersons--have kept more or less in touch. We must really give the
Signora a testimonial. We shan't have
rain, but we shall have darkness, so let us hurry on. The darkness last
night was appalling. I have been thinking, Miss Bartlett, and, unless you
very much object, I would like to reopen that discussion. Nothing about the past. I know little and care less about that; I am
absolutely certain that it is to your cousin's credit. She has acted
loftily and rightly, and it is like her gentle modesty to say that we
think too highly of her. But the future. Seriously, what do you think of
this Greek plan? I don't know whether
you overheard, but she wants to join the Miss Alans in their mad career.
It's all--I can't explain--it's wrong. I can't see the point of it myself. Really. Now, why? I know--but it seems so odd, so unlike her, so--I was going to
say--selfish. So she says herself, and since another
lady agrees with her, I must own that I am partially convinced. Perhaps
she must have a change. I have no sisters or--and I don't understand
these things. But why need she go as far as Greece? Let us keep to the future, though, I want your
advice. Otherwise--? Yes, I will help her, Come,
let us go back now, and settle the whole thing up. They that
marry do well, but they that refrain do better. Mrs. Honeychurch, go to Greece she must. Come up to the
house and let's talk it over. Do you, in the first place, mind her
breaking with Vyse? Good. Now come up to the house. She is playing the piano, I didn't know that Miss Honeychurch sang, too. It's a beautiful song and a wise one, Go on. I suspected it was unscholarly. It's so beautiful. Wait a minute; she is finishing. That's all right, I counted on you two
keeping each other company. It's pouring again. The entire congregation,
which consists of your cousin, your mother, and my mother, stands
waiting in the church, till the carriage fetches it. Did Powell go
round? No--of course, I'll see. How are the Miss Alans? Did you tell Mr. Emerson about Greece? Don't you think it very plucky of her, Mr. Emerson, to undertake the
two Miss Alans? Now, Miss Honeychurch, go back--keep warm. I think three
is such a courageous number to go travelling. Here's my mother. What's that? One minute, mother. I don't follow you, Mr. Emerson. To whom do you refer? Trust whom? Why not? Oh, rubbish, Miss Honeychurch! I
am more grieved than I can possibly express. It is lamentable,
lamentable--incredible. Nothing, Mr. Emerson, except that he no longer interests me. Marry
George, Miss Honeychurch. He will do admirably. 

Miss Lavish DIALOGUES
No! Mr. Beebe, you are
wrong. The first fine afternoon your ladies must go to Prato. Prato! They must go to Prato. That place is
too sweetly squalid for words. I love it; I revel in shaking off the
trammels of respectability, as you know. If it is Mrs. Grundy who is troubling you, I do assure you that you
can neglect the good person. Being English, Miss Honeychurch will be
perfectly safe. Italians understand. A dear friend of mine, Contessa
Baroncelli, has two daughters, and when she cannot send a maid to school
with them, she lets them go in sailor-hats instead. Every one takes
them for English, you see, especially if their hair is strained tightly
behind. I will take you by a dear dirty back way, Miss Honeychurch, and if you
bring me luck, we shall have an adventure. Tut, tut! Miss Lucy! I hope we shall soon emancipate you from Baedeker.
He does but touch the surface of things. As to the true Italy--he does
not even dream of it. The true Italy is only to be found by patient
observation. A smell! a true Florentine smell! Every city, let me teach you, has its
own smell. One doesn't come to Italy for niceness, one comes for
life. Buon giorno! Buon giorno! Look at that
adorable wine-cart! How the driver stares at us, dear, simple soul! Buon giorno! Take the word of an old woman, Miss Lucy: you will
never repent of a little civility to your inferiors. That is the
true democracy. Though I am a real Radical as well. There, now you're
shocked. I see, I see. And now you have gone over to the enemy. Shameful! A manufacturing district, I suppose? What a delightful part; I know it so well. It is full of the very
nicest people. Do you know Sir Harry Otway--a Radical if ever there
was? And old Mrs. Butterworth the philanthropist? Oh, you
have property in Surrey? Bless us! Bless us and save us! We've lost the way. Lost! lost! My dear Miss Lucy, during our political diatribes we have
taken a wrong turning. How those horrid Conservatives would jeer at us!
What are we to do? Two lone females in an unknown town. Now, this is
what I call an adventure. Oh, but that is the word of a craven! And no, you are not, not, NOT to
look at your Baedeker. Give it to me; I shan't let you carry it. We will
simply drift. Stop a minute; let those two people go on, or I shall have to speak to
them. I do detest conventional intercourse. Nasty! they are going into
the church, too. Oh, the Britisher abroad! Look at their figures! They walk through my
Italy like a pair of cows. It's very naughty of me, but I would like
to set an examination paper at Dover, and turn back every tourist who
couldn't pass it. There goes my local-colour box! I must have a word with him! Aha! Miss Honeychurch, come you here I am in luck. Now, you are to tell
me absolutely everything that you saw from the beginning. But perhaps you would rather not? It is I who am sorry, literary hacks are shameless
creatures. I believe there's no secret of the human heart into which we
wouldn't pry. Leonora, I hope you will excuse me for boring on like this, It is so tempting to talk to really sympathetic people.
Of course, this is the barest outline. There will be a deal of local
colouring, descriptions of Florence and the neighbourhood, and I shall
also introduce some humorous characters. And let me give you all fair
warning: I intend to be unmerciful to the British tourist. I confess that in Italy my sympathies are not with my own countrymen.
It is the neglected Italians who attract me, and whose lives I am going
to paint so far as I can. For I repeat and I insist, and I have always
held most strongly, that a tragedy such as yesterday's is not the less
tragic because it happened in humble life. Perhaps as a student of human nature, like
myself? I quite agree, The narrowness and superficiality of the
Anglo-Saxon tourist is nothing less than a menace. It does indeed! Tell me, where do they place the
scene of that wonderful seventh day? Most certainly I would let them be, But I dare say I
shall receive scant support. I have always flown in the face of the
conventions all my life. This is what I call an adventure. Surely no! He was not driving us well, He jolted us. Most certainly I have. Do you refer to Lorenzo il Magnifico, or to
Lorenzo, Duke of Urbino, or to Lorenzo surnamed Lorenzino on account of
his diminutive stature? The railway! Oh, but I shall die! Of course it
was the railway! He is the image of a
porter--on, on the South-Eastern. I can't stop. Let me go my wicked way. A porter-- Miss Honeychurch listening! Pouf! Wouf! You
naughty girl! Go away! No, I agree, It's like a school feast; the boys
have got separated from the girls. Miss Lucy, you are to go. We wish to
converse on high topics unsuited for your ear. Then sit you down, Observe my foresight. 

The Little Old Lady DIALOGUES
But here you are as safe as in England. Signora Bertolini is so
English. Ah, then you look into the court. If only Mr. Emerson was
more tactful! We were so sorry for you at dinner. 

Italian Lady DIALOGUES
Niente, 

Rev. Cuthbert Eager DIALOGUES
Pardon me, The chapel is somewhat small for two
parties. We will incommode you no longer. ...full of innate sympathy...quickness to perceive good in
others...vision of the brotherhood of man... Ah, not for me, for I have been watching
you and Miss Honeychurch for quite a little time. So I saw. Were you indeed? Andate via! sono occupato! I am about to venture a suggestion. Would you and
Miss Honeychurch be disposed to join me in a drive some day this week--a
drive in the hills? We might go up by Fiesole and back by Settignano.
There is a point on that road where we could get down and have an
hour's ramble on the hillside. The view thence of Florence is most
beautiful--far better than the hackneyed view of Fiesole. It is the view
that Alessio Baldovinetti is fond of introducing into his pictures. That
man had a decided feeling for landscape. Decidedly. But who looks at it
to-day? Ah, the world is too much for us. So we shall be a partie carree, In these days of
toil and tumult one has great needs of the country and its message of
purity. Andate via! andate presto, presto! Ah, the town! Beautiful as it
is, it is the town. This very square--so I am told--witnessed yesterday the most sordid of
tragedies. To one who loves the Florence of Dante and Savonarola
there is something portentous in such desecration--portentous and
humiliating. And how came we to have you here? So you were here alone, Miss Honeychurch? For her also it must have been a terrible experience. I trust that
neither of you was at all--that it was not in your immediate proximity? And you and your friend-- That must have saved you much. You have not, of course, seen the
disgraceful illustrations which the gutter Press--This man is a public
nuisance; he knows that I am a resident perfectly well, and yet he goes
on worrying me to buy his vulgar views. This is too much! Ignore him, Generally, one has only sympathy for their
success. The desire for education and for social advance--in these
things there is something not wholly vile. There are some working men
whom one would be very willing to see out here in Florence--little as
they would make of it. He is not; he made an advantageous marriage. Dead, Miss Bartlett, dead. I wonder--yes I wonder how he has the
effrontery to look me in the face, to dare to claim acquaintance with
me. He was in my London parish long ago. The other day in Santa Croce,
when he was with Miss Honeychurch, I snubbed him. Let him beware that he
does not get more than a snub. Exposure! I should be astonished if you knew all. The boy--an innocent child at
the time--I will exclude. God knows what his education and his inherited
qualities may have made him. To speak plainly, it is. I will say no more. It was my intention to say very little, Murder, if you want to know, That man murdered his
wife! To all intents and purposes he murdered her. That day in Santa
Croce--did they say anything against me? Oh, I thought they had been libelling me to you. But I suppose it is
only their personal charms that makes you defend them. I must be going, So, Miss Honeychurch, you are travelling? As a student of art? Oh, indeed, Are you indeed? If you will not think me
rude, we residents sometimes pity you poor tourists not a little--handed
about like a parcel of goods from Venice to Florence, from Florence to
Rome, living herded together in pensions or hotels, quite unconscious
of anything that is outside Baedeker, their one anxiety to get 'done'
or 'through' and go on somewhere else. The result is, they mix up towns,
rivers, palaces in one inextricable whirl. You know the American girl
in Punch who says: And the father
replies: There's travelling for you. Ha! ha! ha! Quite so. Now, the English colony at Florence, Miss Honeychurch--and it
is of considerable size, though, of course, not all equally--a few are
here for trade, for example. But the greater part are students. Lady
Helen Laverstock is at present busy over Fra Angelico. I mention her
name because we are passing her villa on the left. No, you can only see
it if you stand--no, do not stand; you will fall. She is very proud of
that thick hedge. Inside, perfect seclusion. One might have gone back
six hundred years. Some critics believe that her garden was the scene of
The Decameron, which lends it an additional interest, does it not? Doubtless you know
her monographs in the series of 'Mediaeval Byways'? He is working at
Gemistus Pletho. Sometimes as I take tea in their beautiful grounds I
hear, over the wall, the electric tram squealing up the new road with
its loads of hot, dusty, unintelligent tourists who are going to 'do'
Fiesole in an hour in order that they may say they have been there, and
I think--think--I think how little they think what lies so near them. Piano! piano! We must not submit, I knew he was trying it on. He is
treating us as if we were a party of Cook's tourists. Victory at last! would
render a correct meaning. Courage, Miss Honeychurch, courage and faith. If I might say so, there
is something almost blasphemous in this horror of the elements. Are we
seriously to suppose that all these clouds, all this immense electrical
display, is simply called into existence to extinguish you or me? Even from the scientific standpoint the chances against our being
struck are enormous. The steel knives, the only articles which might
attract the current, are in the other carriage. And, in any case, we are
infinitely safer than if we were walking. Courage--courage and faith. Typical behaviour, In
the presence of reality that kind of person invariably breaks down. 

The Vicar DIALOGUES
Cousin of one of my parishioners. I do not consider her choice of a
piece happy. Beethoven is so usually simple and direct in his appeal
that it is sheer perversity to choose a thing like that, which, if
anything, disturbs. She will be delighted. She and Miss Bartlett are full of the praises of
your sermon. 

Miss Catherine Alan DIALOGUES
Oh, dear Miss Honeychurch, you will catch a chill! And Mr. Beebe here
besides. Who would suppose this is Italy? There is my sister actually
nursing the hot-water can; no comforts or proper provisions. I could hear your beautiful playing, Miss Honeychurch, though I was in
my room with the door shut. Doors shut; indeed, most necessary. No one
has the least idea of privacy in this country. And one person catches it
from another. Oh, Mr. Beebe, Indeed,
though it is dreadful for her to smoke, it is not quite as dreadful as
you suppose. She took to it, practically in despair, after her
life's work was carried away in a landslip. Surely that makes it more
excusable. It was
a novel--and I am afraid, from what I can gather, not a very nice novel.
It is so sad when people who have abilities misuse them, and I must say
they nearly always do. Anyhow, she left it almost finished in the Grotto
of the Calvary at the Capuccini Hotel at Amalfi while she went for a
little ink. She said: But you know
what Italians are, and meanwhile the Grotto fell roaring on to the
beach, and the saddest thing of all is that she cannot remember what she
has written. The poor thing was very ill after it, and so got tempted
into cigarettes. It is a great secret, but I am glad to say that she is
writing another novel. She told Teresa and Miss Pole the other day that
she had got up all the local colour--this novel is to be about modern
Italy; the other was historical--but that she could not start till she
had an idea. First she tried Perugia for an inspiration, then she came
here--this must on no account get round. And so cheerful through it all!
I cannot help thinking that there is something to admire in everyone,
even if you do not approve of them. All the same, she is a little too--I hardly like to say unwomanly, but
she behaved most strangely when the Emersons arrived. I don't know, Miss Honeychurch, if you have noticed that Miss Pole, the
lady who has so much yellow hair, takes lemonade. That old Mr. Emerson,
who puts things very strangely-- Stomach. He warned Miss Pole of her stomach-acidity, he called it--and
he may have meant to be kind. I must say I forgot myself and laughed; it
was so sudden. As Teresa truly said, it was no laughing matter. But the
point is that Miss Lavish was positively ATTRACTED by his mentioning
S., and said she liked plain speaking, and meeting different grades of
thought. She thought they were commercial travellers-- was the
word she used--and all through dinner she tried to prove that England,
our great and beloved country, rests on nothing but commerce. Teresa was
very much annoyed, and left the table before the cheese, saying as she
did so: and pointed to that beautiful picture of Lord Tennyson. Then Miss
Lavish said: Just imagine! 'Tut! The early
Victorians.' My sister had gone, and I felt bound to speak. I said It was horrible
speaking. I reminded her how the Queen had been to Ireland when she did
not want to go, and I must say she was dumbfounded, and made no reply.
But, unluckily, Mr. Emerson overheard this part, and called in his deep
voice: The
woman! I tell things so badly; but you see what a tangle we were in
by this time, all on account of S. having been mentioned in the first
place. But that was not all. After dinner Miss Lavish actually came up
and said: Needless to say, I refused such an unsuitable
invitation, and she had the impertinence to tell me that it would
broaden my ideas, and said that she had four brothers, all University
men, except one who was in the army, who always made a point of talking
to commercial travellers. Violets? Oh, dear! Who told you about the violets? How do things get
round? A pension is a bad place for gossips. No, I cannot forget how
they behaved at Mr. Eager's lecture at Santa Croce. Oh, poor Miss
Honeychurch! It really was too bad. No, I have quite changed. I do NOT
like the Emersons. They are not nice. But aren't they always waylaying you to go out with them, dear? Most right of her. They don't understand our ways. They must find their
level. Too late to go out, All the
galleries are shut. Italians, dear, you know, 

The Chambermaid DIALOGUES
Fa niente, sono vecchia. 

The Driver DIALOGUES
Va bene, signore, va bene, va bene, She is my sister, Signorina! would she like to see them? Eccolo! Courage! Courage and love. Let us go
immediately, The signorino will walk. Apparently. I told him it was unwise. Va bene, 

Persephone DIALOGUES
Signorina! 

Freddy DIALOGUES
Where aren't they? I
tell you I'm getting fairly sick. Time they did. It's his third go, isn't it? I didn't mean to be unkind. But I do think Lucy might
have got this off her chest in Italy. I don't know how girls manage
things, but she can't have said properly before, or she wouldn't
have to say it again now. Over the whole thing--I can't explain--I do
feel so uncomfortable. I feel--never mind. Yes, mother, you told me. A jolly good letter. Nor me. He asked me for my permission also. Why so? Why shouldn't my permission be
asked? I said to Cecil, The bother is this, I don't see you ought to go peeping like that. The bother is this: I have put my foot in it with Cecil most awfully. Not content with 'permission', which I did
give--that is to say, I said, --well, not content with
that, he wanted to know whether I wasn't off my head with joy. He
practically put it like this: Wasn't it a splendid thing for Lucy and
for Windy Corner generally if he married her? And he would have an
answer--he said it would strengthen his hand. I answered 'No' There! Fly into a
stew! I can't help it--had to say it. I had to say no. He ought never to
have asked me. Oh, do keep quiet, mother! I had to say no when I couldn't say yes. I
tried to laugh as if I didn't mean what I said, and, as Cecil laughed
too, and went away, it may be all right. But I feel my foot's in it. Oh,
do keep quiet, though, and let a man do some work. Not a bit! I only let out I didn't like him. I don't hate
him, but I don't like him. What I mind is that he'll tell Lucy. I liked him till just now. I suppose it's having him spoiling Lucy's
first week at home; and it's also something that Mr. Beebe said, not
knowing. You know Mr. Beebe's funny way, when you never quite know what he
means. He said: I was very cute, I
asked him what he meant. He said I
couldn't make him say any more, but it set me thinking. Since Cecil has
come after Lucy he hasn't been so pleasant, at least--I can't explain. Suppose Lucy marries Cecil, would she live in a flat, or in the
country? Cross it out, too, Look out! Steady on! We go with Lucy? Fiasco Saturn's all right for bumble-puppy, Minnie, don't you listen to her. Saturn bounces enough. Well; he bounces better than the Beautiful White Devil. But look at Lucy--complaining of Saturn, and all the time's got the
Beautiful White Devil in her hand, ready to plug it in. That's right,
Minnie, go for her--get her over the shins with the racquet--get her
over the shins! Who are the Miss Alans? That wasn't the name-- Alan wasn't the name of the people Sir Harry's let to. Nonsense yourself! I've this minute seen him. He said to me: I said, 'ooray, old boy!'
and slapped him on the back Rather not. More like Anderson. Yes, I do. I've got it. Emerson. Emerson. I'll bet you anything you like. I don't know whether they're any Emersons, Oh, yes, And you will be satisfied, too, for they're
friends of Cecil; so you and the other country
families will be able to call in perfect safety. Friends of Cecil's, Fiasco's done you this time, Oh, don't go! M'm. Are these people great readers? Are they that
sort? Mr. Beebe, look at that, How very odd of him! The same as Lucy's got. She came back yesterday. Yes, very, She and Cecil are thicker
than ever. I wish I wasn't such a fool, Mr. Beebe. Lucy used to be nearly as stupid as I am, but it'll be very different
now, mother thinks. She will read all kinds of books. Only medical books. Not books that you can talk about afterwards. Cecil
is teaching Lucy Italian, and he says her playing is wonderful. There
are all kinds of things in it that we have never noticed. Cecil says-- How d'ye do? Come and have
a bathe. I say, what about this bathe? Not a bit! I must--that is to say, I have to--have
the pleasure of calling on you later on, my mother says, I hope. Do you really want this bathe? It is only a pond,
don't you know. I dare say you are used to something better. Here we are! In there's the pond. I wish it was bigger, Mr. Beebe, aren't you bathing? Water's wonderful! Apooshoo, apooshoo, apooshoo, Hee-poof--I've swallowed a pollywog, Mr. Beebe, water's wonderful,
water's simply ripping. Water's wonderful. Mr. Beebe, do. Race you round it, then, A try! A try! Goal! Pass! Well, I can't help it, I can't
be trodden on, can I? Look here, mother, a fellow must wash, and a fellow's got to dry, and
if another fellow-- And me, I've swallowed one, I've
swallowed a pollywog. It wriggleth in my tummy. I shall die--Emerson you
beast, you've got on my bags. I say, those are topping people. I say, is anything on to-morrow week? Then I want to ask the Emersons up to Sunday tennis. What's wrong with the court? They won't mind a bump or two, and I've
ordered new balls. Lucy, what's Emerson like? Is he the clever sort, or is he a decent chap? This year, next year, now, never, So would I, I must say Cousin Charlotte was very kind to me that year I called on
my bike, She thanked me for coming till I felt like
such a fool, and fussed round no end to get an egg boiled for my tea
just right. I didn't mean the egg was WELL boiled, because in
point of fact she forgot to take it off, and as a matter of fact I don't
care for eggs. I only meant how jolly kind she seemed. Just what I've been trying to convince
Cousin Charlotte of, Lucy, for the last half hour. All right, if you'd really rather. Five shillings, and I gave a bob to
the driver. I vote tennis, All right. Oh, come along Cecil. I'm bad, Floyd's rotten, and so I dare say's
Emerson. Hullo, Emerson! Found the lost ball? Good
man! Want any tea? Try the jam, The jam's jolly good. She's started on her Sunday writing. She's in the drawing-room. Hullo, Lucy! There's still light enough for another set, if you two'll
hurry. What a nuisance! That spoils the four. I say, Cecil, do play, do,
there's a good chap. It's Floyd's last day. Do play tennis with us, just
this once. I'm awfully sorry to interrupt, Mr. Beebe, but have you
any matches? I'm so glad you
only talked about books. Cecil's hard hit. Lucy won't marry him. If
you'd gone on about her, as you did about them, he might have broken
down. Late last night. I must go. No--go on. Good-bye. So am I, The tune's right enough, but the words are rotten. Why
throw up the sponge? This has been a day and a half. I love weather like this, 

Mrs. Honeychurch DIALOGUES
For goodness' sake go out of my drawing-room, then? I think things are coming to a head, I am glad that Cecil is asking her this once more. Freddy I do call the way you talk unkind. Do you indeed, dear? How interesting! Just listen to what I have written to Mrs. Vyse. I said: 'Dear Mrs.
Vyse.' I said: I was rather amused at Cecil asking my permission at all. He
has always gone in for unconventionality, and parents nowhere, and so
forth. When it comes to the point, he can't get on without me. You? What do you mean? How very odd of him! What do you know about Lucy or girls or anything? What ever did you
say? What a helpful answer! Freddy, you must come. There they still are! Peeping like that! Can't I look out of my own window? Still page 322? I hope you gave a careful answer, dear. Ridiculous child! You think you're so holy and
truthful, but really it's only abominable conceit. Do you suppose that
a man like Cecil would take the slightest notice of anything you say? I
hope he boxed your ears. How dare you say no? No, I shall not keep quiet. You know all that has passed between
them in Rome; you know why he is down here, and yet you deliberately
insult him, and try to turn him out of my house. Well, I like him, I know his mother; he's
good, he's clever, he's rich, he's well connected--Oh, you needn't kick
the piano! He's well connected--I'll say it again if you like: he's
well connected. And he has beautiful manners. Mr. Beebe? I don't
see how Mr. Beebe comes in. You never can, dear. But I can. You are jealous of Cecil because he may
stop Lucy knitting you silk ties. Will this do? Then I put in at the top, I must write
the letter out again-- I
said that because I didn't want Mrs. Vyse to think us old-fashioned. She
goes in for lectures and improving her mind, and all the time a thick
layer of flue under the beds, and the maid's dirty thumb-marks where you
turn on the electric light. She keeps that flat abominably-- Don't interrupt so foolishly. Where was I? Oh yes-- No, I'll cross that last bit out--it looks patronizing. I'll
stop at Or shall I cross that out,
too? Then the whole thing runs: Oh, Cecil! oh, Cecil, do tell me! I am so glad, Welcome as one of the family! This is indeed a joyous day! I feel sure that you
will make our dear Lucy happy. We mothers-- Not a kiss for me? Have you heard? Oh, Mr. Beebe, have you heard the news? You only asked for it just in time, How dare you
be serious at Windy Corner? Plenty of society, Difference? I don't see any
difference. Fences are fences, especially when they are in the same
place. My dear Cecil, look here. This is me. That's Windy Corner. The rest of the
pattern is the other people. Motives are all very well, but the fence
comes here. Oh, I see, dear--poetry. "I tell you who has no as you call them, and
that's Mr. Beebe. Hush, dear! Poor old man! What was his name? Let's hope that Mrs. Harris there warn't no sich person, My goodness gracious me, child! You'll blow
my head off! Whatever is there to shout over? I forbid you and Cecil to
hate any more clergymen. Stop! Here's Sir Harry. Now we shall know. Sir Harry, pull those things down
at once! Am I not always right? She ought to have gone before the contract was
signed. Does she still live rent free, as she did in her nephew's time? My advice, is to have nothing to do with
Lucy and her decayed gentlewomen at all. I know the type. Preserve me
from people who have seen better days, and bring heirlooms with them
that make the house smell stuffy. It's a sad thing, but I'd far rather
let to someone who is going up in the world than to someone who has
come down. Beware! They are certain to have canaries. Sir Harry, beware of
canaries: they spit the seed out through the bars of the cages and then
the mice come. Beware of women altogether. Only let to a man. Men don't gossip over tea-cups. If they get drunk, there's an end of
them--they lie down comfortably and sleep it off. If they're vulgar,
they somehow keep it to themselves. It doesn't spread so. Give me a
man--of course, provided he's clean. Certainly! I cannot think
what people are doing, but it is extremely fortunate
for the children. I shall hate those Miss Alans! Just because
they're old and silly one's expected to say 'How sweet!' I hate
their 'if'-ing and 'but'-ing and 'and'-ing. And poor Lucy--serve her
right--worn to a shadow. Hush, dear, Oh, good gracious, there isn't going to be another muddle! Do you notice, Lucy, I'm always right? I said
don't interfere with Cissie Villa. I'm always right. I'm quite uneasy at
being always right so often. Emerson, Freddy? Do you know what Emersons they are? I trust they are the right sort of person. All right, Lucy I see you looking down your nose and thinking your
mother's a snob. But there is a right sort and a wrong sort, and it's
affectation to pretend there isn't. I was merely going to remark, Freddy, that I trusted they were no
relations of Emerson the philosopher, a most trying man. Pray, does that
satisfy you? Don't be rude, dear, Lucy, don't screech.
It's a new bad habit you're getting into. Murdered his wife? Lucy, don't desert us--go
on playing bumble-puppy. Really, the Pension Bertolini must have been
the oddest place. That's the second murderer I've heard of as being
there. Whatever was Charlotte doing to stop? By-the-by, we really must
ask Charlotte here some time. Harris! Gracious alive! Whoever were those
unfortunate people? Oh, dears, look away! And poor Mr. Beebe, too!
Whatever has happened? Oh, poor Mr. Beebe! Was that his waistcoat we left in the path? Cecil,
Mr. Beebe's waistcoat-- I fancy Mr. Beebe jumped back into the pond. Good gracious me, dear; so it's you! What miserable management! Why not
have a comfortable bath at home, with hot and cold laid on? Dear, no doubt you're right as usual, but you are in no position to
argue. Come, Lucy. Oh, look--don't look! Oh, poor Mr.
Beebe! How unfortunate again-- Hush, dears, And do be sure you dry yourselves thoroughly first. All these
colds come of not drying thoroughly. Bow, Lucy; better bow. Whoever is it? I shall bow. Lucy, is anything the matter
with Cecil? Perhaps he's tired. Because otherwise because otherwise I cannot account for him. Cecil has told you to think so. You were devoted to her as a little
girl, and nothing will describe her goodness to you through the typhoid
fever. No--it is just the same thing everywhere. Surely he could answer her civilly for one half-hour? Oh, rubbish! If high ideals make a young man rude, the sooner he gets
rid of them the better, Not in that way. At times I could wring her neck. But not in that way.
No. It is the same with Cecil all over. Since Cecil came back from London, nothing appears to please him.
Whenever I speak he winces;--I see him, Lucy; it is useless to
contradict me. No doubt I am neither artistic nor literary nor
intellectual nor musical, but I cannot help the drawing-room furniture;
your father bought it and we must put up with it, will Cecil kindly
remember. Is it a thing or a person when Freddy sings? Then why didn't he leave the room? Why sit wriggling and sneering and
spoiling everyone's pleasure? Go and dress, dear; you'll be late. Don't say and stop. Go Lucy, what a noise you're making! I
have something to say to you. Did you say you had had a letter from
Charlotte? How's Charlotte? Lucy! You've a bad habit of hurrying away in the middle of one's sentences.
Did Charlotte mention her boiler? Don't you remember that her boiler was to be had out in October, and
her bath cistern cleaned out, and all kinds of terrible to-doings? Come
here, old lady--thank you for putting away my bonnet--kiss me. How well did you know them at the Bertolini? Oh, that reminds me--you never told me what Charlotte said in her
letter. Lucy, I do call the way you talk unkind. I have been thinking, Lucy, of that letter of Charlotte's. How is she? Didn't she say how she was? How does she sound? Cheerful? Then, depend upon it, it IS the boiler. I know myself how water preys
upon one's mind. I would rather anything else--even a misfortune with
the meat. And I have been thinking, surely we could
squeeze Charlotte in here next week, and give her a nice holiday while
plumbers at Tunbridge Wells finish. I have not seen poor Charlotte for
so long. Nonsense! It can. Minnie can sleep with you. Then, if you're so selfish, Mr. Floyd must share a room with Freddy. The truth is, dear, you don't like Charlotte. This isn't very kind of
you two. You have each other and all these woods to walk in, so full of
beautiful things; and poor Charlotte has only the water turned off and
plumbers. You are young, dears, and however clever young people are, and
however many books they read, they will never guess what it feels like
to grow old. I know, dear. She is kind to everyone, and yet Lucy makes this
difficulty when we try to give her some little return. From your own account, you told her as much. Lucy! Lucy! What's that book? Who's been taking a book out of the shelf
and leaving it about to spoil? But pick it up, and don't stand idling there like a flamingo. Lucy--have you a sixpence for Minnie and a shilling for yourself? It's a special collection--I forget what for. I do beg, no vulgar
clinking in the plate with halfpennies; see that Minnie has a nice
bright sixpence. Where is the child? Minnie! That book's all warped.
(Gracious, how plain you look!) Put it under the Atlas to press.
Minnie! Minnie, don't be late. Here comes the horse Where's Charlotte? Run up and hurry her. Why is she
so long? She had nothing to do. She never brings anything but blouses.
Poor Charlotte--How I do detest blouses! Minnie! Yes, easily. Jump in. Gracious me, how smart you look! What a lovely
frock! You put us all to shame. Introduce me, Unless the young man considers that he
knows me already. I believe that there was some misunderstanding, Yes! That's exactly what I say. Why all
this twiddling and twaddling over two Miss Alans? Oh, Mr. Emerson, I see you're clever! I see you're going to be clever. I hope you didn't go behaving like
that to poor Freddy. What DO you mean? No, never mind what you mean. Don't explain. He looks
forward to seeing you this afternoon. Do you play tennis? Do you mind
tennis on Sunday--? Very well, George doesn't mind tennis on Sunday. No more do I. That's
settled. Mr. Emerson, if you could come with your son we should be so
pleased. And then he wants to give up his house to the
Miss Alans. You know our cousin, Miss Bartlett, You met her with my daughter in Florence. Not very dutiful, Then it will have to be Lucy, you must fall
back on Lucy. There is no other way out of it. Lucy, go and change your
frock. Oh, how do you do, Mr. Beebe? Gracious what a mess everything is! Look
at my scarlet pompoms, and the wind blowing your skirts about, and the
ground so hard that not a prop will stick in, and then the carriage
having to go out, when I had counted on having Powell, who--give every
one their due--does tie up dahlias properly. Here, Lennie, the bass, Oh, must you? Yes do.--Not the scissors, thank you, Charlotte, when
both my hands are full already--I'm perfectly certain that the orange
cactus will go before I can get to it. Yes, Charlotte, I don't want you--do go; there's nothing to stop about
for, either in the house or out of it. It gets too dark, This comes of putting off. We
might have known the weather would break up soon; and now Lucy wants to
go to Greece. I don't know what the world's coming to. Mr. Beebe, I'm thankful--simply thankful. I don't see why Greece is necessary, but as you do, I suppose it is all right. It must be something I
can't understand. Lucy! Let's tell her. Lucy! It's a song that Cecil gave her. How odd girls are! All right, dear, I am sorry I
was so cross about Greece, but it came on the top of the dahlias. And you are right, too--Greece will be all right; you can go if the
Miss Alans will have you. Here's Mr. Beebe. No one will see Lucy off, She doesn't
like it. I should be told, dear, that I am
unsympathetic. But I cannot see why you didn't tell your friends about
Cecil and be done with it. There all the time we had to sit fencing, and
almost telling lies, and be seen through, too, I dare say, which is most
unpleasant. But why shouldn't it be everywhere in no time? You know, Lucy, you and Charlotte and Mr. Beebe all tell me I'm
so stupid, so I suppose I am, but I shall never understand this
hole-and-corner work. You've got rid of Cecil--well and good, and I'm
thankful he's gone, though I did feel angry for the minute. But why not
announce it? Why this hushing up and tip-toeing? But why at all? My daughter won't
answer me; she would rather be with those inquisitive old maids than
with Freddy and me. Any rag, tag, and bobtail apparently does if she
can leave her home. You're tired of Windy Corner. Then why not say so at once, instead of considering half an hour? Perhaps you would like to stay away from your home altogether? And mess with typewriters and latch-keys, And agitate and scream, and be carried off kicking by the police. And
call it a Mission--when no one wants you! And call it Duty--when
it means that you can't stand your own home! And call it Work--when
thousands of men are starving with the competition as it is! And then
to prepare yourself, find two doddering old ladies, and go abroad with
them. Very well. Take your independence and be gone. Rush up and down and
round the world, and come back as thin as a lath with the bad food.
Despise the house that your father built and the garden that he planted,
and our dear view--and then share a flat with another girl. Oh, goodness! How you do remind me of Charlotte
Bartlett! More every moment. Well, I see the likeness. The same eternal worrying, the same taking
back of words. You and Charlotte trying to divide two apples among three
people last night might be sisters. There you go. Charlotte again, my dear; that's all; her very words. Very well, old lady, stop
the horse. Certainly, I forgot it was Friday. Let's
all go. Powell can go round to the stables. 

Cecil DIALOGUES
I promessi sposi, She has accepted me, I hope so, I say, Lucy! Would you take them into the garden and tell Mrs. Honeychurch all about
it? And I'd stop here and tell my mother. Yes, you go with Lucy. He is only a boy, I represent all
that he despises. Why should he want me for a brother-in-law? I should say so. Food is the thing one does get here--Don't sit in that
chair; young Honeychurch has left a bone in it. I know, I know. I can't think why Mrs. Honeychurch allows
it. News? I don't understand you, News? Has he indeed? I'm shockingly stupid over local affairs, I can't even remember the difference between a Parish
Council and a Local Government Board. Perhaps there is no difference, or
perhaps those aren't the right names. I only go into the country to see
my friends and to enjoy the scenery. It is very remiss of me. Italy and
London are the only places where I don't feel to exist on sufferance. I have no profession, It is another example of my
decadence. My attitude--quite an indefensible one--is that so long as I
am no trouble to any one I have a right to do as I like. I know I ought
to be getting money out of people, or devoting myself to things I don't
care a straw about, but somehow, I've not been able to begin. I am glad that you approve. I daren't face the healthy person--for
example, Freddy Honeychurch. Admirable. The sort who has made England what she is. I suppose Anne never told them you were here. In this house one is so
coached in the servants the day one arrives. The fault of Anne is
that she begs your pardon when she hears you perfectly, and kicks the
chair-legs with her feet. The faults of Mary--I forget the faults of
Mary, but they are very grave. Shall we look in the garden? The fault of Euphemia is that she will not, simply will not, chop the
suet sufficiently small. The faults of Freddy-- She has none, At present? And at present you think her not wonderful as far as life goes? In what way? But the string never broke? It has broken now, I meant, that she is going to marry me. I am sorry I have given you a shock, I fear that
Lucy's choice does not meet with your approval. You are conscious of having said something indiscreet? Grazie tante! Do you go to much of this sort of thing? Is it typical of country society? To me it seemed perfectly appalling, disastrous, portentous. Not that, but the congratulations. It is so disgusting, the way an
engagement is regarded as public property--a kind of waste place where
every outsider may shoot his vulgar sentiment. All those old women
smirking! But my point is that their whole attitude is wrong. An
engagement--horrid word in the first place--is a private matter, and
should be treated as such. I don't play tennis--at least, not in public. The neighbourhood is
deprived of the romance of me being athletic. Such romance as I have is
that of the Inglese Italianato. E un diavolo incarnato! You know the proverb? Well, I cannot help it if they do disapprove of me. There
are certain irremovable barriers between myself and them, and I must
accept them. Sometimes they are forced on us, though, It makes a difference doesn't it, whether we fully fence ourselves in,
or whether we are fenced out by the barriers of others? We were speaking of motives, A parson fenceless would mean a parson defenceless. I never said so! I consider him far above the average. I
only denied-- What sort of things? Perhaps he had. Why Isn't Mr. Eager a parson of the cultured type? I count myself a lucky person, When I'm in London I
feel I could never live out of it. When I'm in the country I feel the
same about the country. After all, I do believe that birds and trees and
the sky are the most wonderful things in life, and that the people who
live amongst them must be the best. It's true that in nine cases out of
ten they don't seem to notice anything. The country gentleman and
the country labourer are each in their way the most depressing of
companions. Yet they may have a tacit sympathy with the workings
of Nature which is denied to us of the town. Do you feel that, Mrs.
Honeychurch? Let us take Mrs. Honeychurch's advice and hate clergymen no
more. What's this place? Turn her out, You ought to find a tenant at once, It would be
a perfect paradise for a bank clerk. Yes, they are, I haven't met them but I should say they
were a highly unsuitable addition to the neighbourhood. Mrs. Honeychurch, what if we two walk home and leave you? Hopeless vulgarian! I can't help it. It would be wrong not to loathe that man. No, Lucy, he stands for all that is bad in country life. In London he
would keep his place. He would belong to a brainless club, and his wife
would give brainless dinner parties. But down here he acts the little
god with his gentility, and his patronage, and his sham aesthetics, and
everyone--even your mother--is taken in. It matters supremely. Sir Harry is the essence of that garden-party.
Oh, goodness, how cross I feel! How I do hope he'll get some vulgar
tenant in that villa--some woman so really vulgar that he'll notice
it. GENTLEFOLKS! Ugh! with his bald head and retreating chin! But let's
forget him. Are there two ways? I'd rather go through the wood, Why is it,
Lucy, that you always say the road? Do you know that you have never once
been with me in the fields or the wood since we were engaged? I had got an idea--I dare say wrongly--that you feel more at home with
me in a room. Yes. Or, at the most, in a garden, or on a road. Never in the real
country like this. I don't know that you aren't. I connect you with a view--a certain type
of view. Why shouldn't you connect me with a room? A drawing-room, pray? With no view? I'd rather, that you connected me with the open
air. Why do you call it that? And you? Who found you out? Poor girl! Lucy! Lucy, I want to ask something of you that I have never asked before. Hitherto never--not even that day on the lawn when you agreed to marry
me-- Up to now I have never kissed you. Then I ask you--may I now? What name? What old man? Hullo! I was hoping you'd come. I heard you all
bear-gardening, but there's better fun up here. I, even I, have won a
great victory for the Comic Muse. George Meredith's right--the cause of
Comedy and the cause of Truth are really the same; and I, even I, have
found tenants for the distressful Cissie Villa. Don't be angry! Don't be
angry! You'll forgive me when you hear it all. Friends of mine? But, Lucy, the whole joke is to come!
Come here. Do you know where
I met these desirable tenants? In the National Gallery, when I was up to
see my mother last week. In the Umbrian Room. Absolute strangers. They were admiring Luca
Signorelli--of course, quite stupidly. However, we got talking, and they
refreshed me not a little. They had been to Italy. In the course of conversation they said that they wanted a country
cottage--the father to live there, the son to run down for week-ends.
I thought, 'What a chance of scoring off Sir Harry!' and I took
their address and a London reference, found they weren't actual
blackguards--it was great sport--and wrote to him, making out-- Perfectly fair. Anything is fair that punishes a snob. That old man
will do the neighbourhood a world of good. Sir Harry is too disgusting
with his 'decayed gentlewomen.' I meant to read him a lesson some time.
No, Lucy, the classes ought to mix, and before long you'll agree with
me. There ought to be intermarriage--all sorts of things. I believe in
democracy-- No, you don't! Temper! So you do love me, little thing? Now some Beethoven Her music always was wonderful. Italy has done it. But her music! The style of her! How she kept to
Schumann when, like an idiot, I wanted Beethoven. Schumann was right for
this evening. Schumann was the thing. Do you know, mother, I shall have
our children educated just like Lucy. Bring them up among honest country
folks for freshness, send them to Italy for subtlety, and then--not
till then--let them come to London. I don't believe in these London
educations-- At all events, not for women. Come this way immediately, No business of ours, This way, please, Mrs. Honeychurch, this way. He is the clever sort, like myself, Miss Bartlett, Miss Bartlett, Miss Bartlett, Hear, hear! I suppose Miss Bartlett must come, since she boils eggs so well, May me and Lucy get down from
our chairs? We don't want no
dessert. Freddy owes me fifteen shillings, So it will work
out right if you give the pound to me. Because, don't you see, Freddy paid your cab. Give me the pound, and we
shall avoid this deplorable gambling. 

The Maid DIALOGUES
Mr. Beebe! A lady to wait,
sir. 

Sir Harry Otway DIALOGUES
Mrs. Honeychurch, I meant to. I can't, I really can't turn out
Miss Flack. But what can I do? An old lady, so very vulgar,
and almost bedridden. The rent is absurdly low, and perhaps I am an easy
landlord. But it is such an awkward size. It is too large for the
peasant class and too small for any one the least like ourselves. Exactly! That is exactly what I fear, Mr.
Vyse. It will attract the wrong type of people. The train service has
improved--a fatal improvement, to my mind. And what are five miles from
a station in these days of bicycles? My dear Lucy, it would be splendid. Do you know any such? Gentlewomen? Indeed you may! Here we are with the difficulty solved
already. How delightful it is! Extra facilities--please tell them they
shall have extra facilities, for I shall have no agents' fees. Oh,
the agents! The appalling people they have sent me! One woman, when
I wrote--a tactful letter, you know--asking her to explain her social
position to me, replied that she would pay the rent in advance. As
if one cares about that! And several references I took up were most
unsatisfactory--people swindlers, or not respectable. And oh, the
deceit! I have seen a good deal of the seamy side this last week. The
deceit of the most promising people. My dear Lucy, the deceit! I think I follow you, but it is, as you say, a very
sad thing. It's I who am tiresome, I oughtn't to come with my
troubles to young people. But really I am so worried, and Lady Otway
will only say that I cannot be too careful, which is quite true, but no
real help. Please! Really-- Aha! young people, young people! 

Mr. Flack DIALOGUES
and
all the capitals different--one with dragons in the foliage, another
approaching to the Ionian style, another introducing Mrs. Flack's
initials--everyone different. 

Mrs. Vyse DIALOGUES
Make Lucy one of us, Lucy is becoming wonderful--wonderful. Yes, but she is purging off the Honeychurch taint, most excellent
Honeychurches, but you know what I mean. She is not always quoting
servants, or asking one how the pudding is made. Perhaps, It is just possible. Cecil, mind you marry her next January.
She is one of us already. Make her one of us, Bad dreams? You
should have heard us talking about you, dear. He admires you more than
ever. Dream of that. 

Minnie Beebe DIALOGUES
But I don't see that! I don't see why Mr. Vyse is to have the
quid. But I don't see-- No, thank you. I'm done. I don't see why--Freddy, don't poke me. Miss
Honeychurch, your brother's hurting me. Ow! What about Mr. Floyd's
ten shillings? Ow! No, I don't see and I never shall see why Miss
What's-her-name shouldn't pay that bob for the driver. Well, I don't blame them need she go? Oh, Mrs. Honeychurch-- I shall miss every ball anyway, so what does it matter? They're angry with Miss Honeychurch because she was late for
breakfast, and Floyd has gone, and Mr. Vyse has
gone, and Freddy won't play with me. In fact, Uncle Arthur, the house is
not AT ALL what it was yesterday. 

Mr. Vyse DIALOGUES
What! you aren't forgetting your Italy already? Good-bye! Be good! How are my proteges? Now play us the other
garden--the one in Parsifal. Not for me, thank you, I will not spoil the set. Then certainly I won't play, I say, listen to this, Lucy.
Three split infinitives. The scene is laid in Florence. Joseph Emery Prank. Who may Miss Lavish be? All modern books are bad, Every one writes
for money in these days. It is so. I will inflict Joseph Emery Prank on you no longer. H'm! I expect your father has been reading Dante, There's an absurd account of a view in this book, Also
that men fall into two classes--those who forget views and those who
remember them, even in small rooms. I will inflict Joseph Emery Prank on you no longer. Not while Mr. Emerson is here to entertain us. Mr. Emerson, go and find tennis balls. Chapter two, Find me chapter two, if it isn't
bothering you. Here--hand me the book. This isn't the passage I wanted, there is another
much funnier, further on. My dear Freddy, I am no athlete. As you well
remarked this very morning, I plead guilty to being such a chap, and will not
inflict myself on you. Different--how--how-- I don't understand you. You aren't like yourself. You're tired, Lucy. Well, you sound tired, as if something has worried you. You had that bad headache yesterday--All right I see it's much more than headaches. But give me a
moment's time. You must excuse me if I say stupid
things, but my brain has gone to pieces. Part of it lives three minutes
back, when I was sure that you loved me, and the other part--I find it
difficult--I am likely to say the wrong thing. I never do play tennis, I never
could play. I don't understand a word you say. No, I can't--well, never mind the tennis. Why couldn't you--couldn't
you have warned me if you felt anything wrong? You talked of our wedding
at lunch--at least, you let me talk. I cannot think you were right, I cannot tell
why, but though all that you say sounds true, I feel that you are not
treating me fairly. It's all too horrible. No good. But surely I have a right to hear a little more. But I love you, and I did think you loved
me! You don't love me, evidently. I dare say you are right not to. But it
would hurt a little less if I knew why. It is true. True, every word. It is a revelation. It is--I. It is true. I
fell to pieces the very first day we were engaged. I behaved like a cad
to Beebe and to your brother. You are even greater than I thought. I'm not going to worry you. You are far too good to
me. I shall never forget your insight; and, dear, I only blame you for
this: you might have warned me in the early stages, before you felt
you wouldn't marry me, and so have given me a chance to improve. I have
never known you till this evening. I have just used you as a peg for
my silly notions of what a woman should be. But this evening you are a
different person: new thoughts--even a new voice-- I mean that a new person seems speaking through you, Of course I don't think that. You are not that kind, Lucy. I may have said that in the past. I shall never
say it again. You have taught me better. Of
course, there is no question of 'someone else' in this, no 'jilting' or
any such nauseous stupidity. I beg your pardon most humbly if my words
suggested that there was. I only meant that there was a force in you
that I hadn't known of up till now. It is a question between ideals, yours and mine--pure abstract ideals,
and yours are the nobler. I was bound up in the old vicious notions,
and all the time you were splendid and new. I must
actually thank you for what you have done--for showing me what I really
am. Solemnly, I thank you for showing me a true woman. Will you shake
hands? Let me light your candle, shall I? Thank you. Good-night again. God bless you, Lucy! Yes, I have, Never. You're quite right, Greece is not for our little lot 

Miss Catharine DIALOGUES
But, of course, you know all about these things, and you have Mr. Vyse
to help you. A gentleman is such a stand-by. We think it so good of Mr. Vyse to spare you, It is not every young man who would be so unselfish. But
perhaps he will come out and join you later on. However, we shall see him when he sees you off. I do so long to see
him. Oh, Mrs. Honeychurch, you aren't going? It is such a pleasure to have
met you! 

Miss Teresa DIALOGUES
Or does his work keep him in London? Really? How funny! I should have thought that in this case-- 

Powell DIALOGUES
Yes, miss, It is too far out of town for the young gentleman, and his father's
rheumatism has come on, so he can't stop on alone, so they are trying to
let furnished, Yes, miss, they have gone. 

The Cabman DIALOGUES
Signorino, domani faremo uno giro, Signorino, domani faremo uno giro-- Signorino, domani faremo-- Signorino, domani faremo uno giro-- Scusi tanto, signora, Buona sera--e grazie. 

