
Christopher Robin - External DIALOGUES
So did I, I don't. He's Winnie-ther-Pooh. Don't you know what '_ther_' means? What about a story? Could you very sweetly tell Winnie-the-Pooh one? About himself. Because he's _that_ sort of Bear. So could you very sweetly? What does 'under the name' mean? Winnie-the-Pooh wasn't quite sure, Now I am, Was that me? Is that the end of the story? About Pooh and Me? I do remember, and then when I try to remember, I forget. They didn't catch it, did they? Pooh couldn't, because he hasn't any brain. Did _I_ catch it? I do remember, only Pooh doesn't very well, so that's why he
likes having it told to him again. Because then it's a real story and
not just a remembering. Coming to see me have my bath? I didn't hurt him when I shot him, did I? And didn't _I_ give him anything? I gave him a box of paints to paint things with. Why didn't I give it to him in the morning? Yes, _I_ remember, And what did happen? Next morning. Could you think and tell me and Pooh some time? Pooh does, Coming to see me have my bath? Was Pooh's pencil case any better than mine? 

Winnie-the-pooh DIALOGUES
Then you can't call him Winnie? But you said---- That buzzing-noise means something.
You don't get a buzzing-noise like that, just buzzing and buzzing,
without its meaning something. If there's a buzzing-noise, somebody's
making a buzzing-noise, and the only reason for making a buzzing-noise
that _I_ know of is because you're a bee. And the only reason for
being a bee that I know of is making honey. And the only reason for making honey is
so as _I_ can eat it. Isn't it funny
    How a bear likes honey?
    Buzz! Buzz! Buzz!
    I wonder why he does? It's a very funny thought that, if Bears were Bees,
    They'd build their nests at the _bottom_ of trees.
    And that being so (if the Bees were Bears),
    We shouldn't have to climb up all these stairs. Oh, help! If only I hadn't---- You see, what I _meant_ to do, what I _meant_ to do---- Of course, it _was_ rather---- It all comes, I suppose, it all comes of _liking_ honey so much. Oh, help! Good morning, Christopher Robin, I wonder if you've got such a thing as a balloon about you? Yes, I just said to myself coming along: 'I wonder if Christopher Robin
has such a thing as a balloon about him?' I just said it to myself,
thinking of balloons, and wondering. _Honey!_ _I_ do, It's like this, When you go after honey with a balloon, the
great thing is not to let the bees know you're coming. Now, if you have
a green balloon, they might think you were only part of the tree, and
not notice you, and, if you have a blue balloon, they might think you
were only part of the sky, and not notice you, and the question is:
Which is most likely? They might or they might not, You never can
tell with bees. I shall try to look
like a small black cloud. That will deceive them. Isn't that fine? What do I look
like? Not, --not like a small black cloud in a blue
sky? Ah, well, perhaps from up here it looks different. And, as I say, you
never can tell with bees. Christopher Robin! I think the bees _suspect_ something! I don't know. But something tells me that they're _suspicious_! It may be that. You never can tell with bees. Christopher Robin! Have you an umbrella in your house? I wish you would bring it out here, and walk up and down with it, and
look up at me every now and then, and say 'Tut-tut, it looks like rain.'
I think, if you did that, it would help the deception which we are
practising on these bees. Oh, there you are! I was beginning to get anxious. I have discovered
that the bees are now definitely Suspicious. Yes, but wait a moment. We must be practical. The important bee to
deceive is the Queen Bee. Can you see which is the Queen Bee from down
there? A pity. Well, now, if you walk up and down with your umbrella, saying,
'Tut-tut, it looks like rain,' I shall do what I can by singing a little
Cloud Song, such as a cloud might sing.... Go! How sweet to be a Cloud
      Floating in the Blue!
    Every little cloud
    _Always_ sings aloud. "How sweet to be a Cloud
      Floating in the Blue!"
    It makes him very proud
    To be a little cloud. Christopher--_ow!_--Robin, I have just been thinking, and I have come to a very important
decision. _These are the wrong sort of bees._ Quite the wrong sort. So I should think they would make the wrong sort
of honey, shouldn't you? Yes. So I think I shall come down. Christopher Robin, you must shoot the balloon with your gun. Have you
got your gun? But if you _don't_, I shall have to let go, and that would
spoil _me_. _Ow!_ You didn't exactly _miss_, but you missed the _balloon_. _Tra-la-la, tra-la-la,_
      _Tra-la-la, tra-la-la,_
    _Rum-tum-tiddle-um-tum._
      _Tiddle-iddle, tiddle-iddle,_
      _Tiddle-iddle, tiddle-iddle,_
    _Rum-tum-tum-tiddle-um._ Aha! If I know anything about
anything, that hole means Rabbit, and Rabbit means Company, and Company means Food and Listening-to-Me-Humming and such
like. _Rum-tum-tum-tiddle-um._ Is anybody at home? What I said was, 'Is anybody at home?' Bother! Isn't there anybody here at all? There must be somebody there, because
somebody must have _said_ 'Nobody.' Hallo, Rabbit, isn't that you? But isn't that Rabbit's voice? Oh! Well, could you very kindly tell me where Rabbit is? But this _is_ Me! Pooh Bear. Quite, quite sure, Who did you think it was? Both, But don't bother about the bread, please. Well, I could stay a little longer if it--if you---- Oh, well, then, I'll be going on. Good-bye. _Is_ there any more? I thought not, Well, good-bye. I must
be going on. Oh, help! I'd better go back. Oh, bother! I shall have to go on. I can't do either! Oh, help _and_ bother! N-no, Just resting and thinking and humming to
myself. _Ow!_ You're hurting! It all comes, of not having front doors big
enough. I was just beginning to think, that
Rabbit might never be able to use his front door again. And I should
_hate_ that, You mean I'd _never_ get out? How long does getting thin take? But I can't stay here for a _week_! A week! _What about meals?_ Then would you read a Sustaining Book, such as would help and comfort a
Wedged Bear in Great Tightness? _Ow!_ _Oh!_ _Pop!_ Hunting, Tracking something, That's just what I ask myself. I ask myself, What? I shall have to wait until I catch up with it, Now, look there. What do
you see there? It may be, Sometimes it is, and sometimes it isn't. You
never can tell with paw-marks. It's a very funny thing, but there seem to be
_two_ animals now. This--whatever-it-was--has been joined by
another--whatever-it-is--and the two of them are now proceeding
in company. Would you mind coming with me, Piglet, in case they
turn out to be Hostile Animals? You mean, in case it really is two Woozles, _Look!_ The tracks! _A third animal has joined the other two!_ No, because it makes different marks. It is either Two
Woozles and one, as it might be, Wizzle, or Two, as it might be, Wizzles
and one, if so it is, Woozle. Let us continue to follow them. Do you see, Piglet? Look at their tracks! Three, as it were, Woozles,
and one, as it was, Wizzle. _Another Woozle has joined them!_ We'll do it this afternoon, and I'll come with you, About twelve, It's Christopher Robin, Wait a moment, Yes, I see now, I have been Foolish and Deluded, and I am a Bear of No Brain
at All. Am I? Anyhow, it is nearly Luncheon Time. And how are you? Dear, dear, I'm sorry about that. Let's have a look at
you. Why, what's happened to your tail? It isn't there! Well, either a tail _is_ there or it isn't there. You can't make a
mistake about it. And yours _isn't_ there! Nothing. Of course I'm right, You must have left it somewhere, Eeyore, I, Winnie-the-Pooh, will find your tail for
you. And if anyone knows anything about anything, it's Owl who knows something about something, or my name's
not Winnie-the-Pooh, Which it is, So there you
are. Owl! I require an answer! It's Bear speaking. Terrible and Sad, because Eeyore, who is a friend of mine,
has lost his tail. And he's Moping about it. So could you very kindly
tell me how to find it for him? What does Crustimoney Proseedcake mean? For I am a Bear of
Very Little Brain, and long words Bother me. As long as it means that, I don't mind, Just a moment, _What_ do we do to
this--what you were saying? You sneezed just as you were going to tell
me. Yes, you did, Owl. Well, you can't know it without something having been sneezed. You're doing it again, I see, I see, Talking about large
somethings, I generally have a small something
about now--about this time in the morning, just a mouthful of
condensed milk or whatnot, with perhaps a lick of honey---- A lick of honey, or--or not, as the case
may be. No, not at all, It reminds me of something, but I can't think what. Where
did you get it? Owl, you made a mistake. Somebody did want it. Eeyore. My dear friend Eeyore. He was--he was fond of it. Attached to it, _Who found the Tail?_
      "I," said Pooh,
    "At a quarter to two
      (Only it was quarter to eleven really),
    _I_ found the Tail!" It's just
what I think myself, Piglet, Quite true, Piglet, although I
had forgotten it for the moment. Piglet, I have decided something. I have decided to catch a Heffalump. I shall do it, by means of
a trap. And it must be a Cunning Trap, so you will have to help me,
Piglet. That's just it. How? Why what? But then he would see us digging it, He would Suspect, if he happened to look down. It isn't as easy as I thought. I
suppose that's why Heffalumps hardly _ever_ get caught. If only I could _think_ of something! Suppose, _you_ wanted to catch _me_, how would you
do it? And I would go in after it, only very carefully
so as not to hurt myself, and I would get to the Jar of Honey, and I
should lick round the edges first of all, pretending that there wasn't
any more, you know, and then I should walk away and think about it a
little, and then I should come back and start licking in the middle of
the jar, and then---- Very well, But you never can tell, I remember my uncle saying once that he had seen cheese just
this colour. Yes, but it isn't quite a full jar, Yes. Six o'clock, Piglet. And have you got any string? To lead them home with. Some do and some don't. You never can tell with Heffalumps. Well, good
night! Bother! It all comes of trying to be kind to Heffalumps. Bother! A Heffalump has
been eating it! Oh, no, _I_
did. I forgot. _Bother!_ _Oh, help!_ _Ow!_ So do I, Good morning, Eeyore, Why, what's the matter? Can't all _what_? Oh! What
mulberry bush is that? Cottleston, Cottleston, Cottleston Pie,
    A fly can't bird, but a bird can fly.
    Ask me a riddle and I reply:
    "_Cottleston, Cottleston, Cottleston Pie._" Cottleston, Cottleston, Cottleston Pie,
    A fish can't whistle and neither can I.
    Ask me a riddle and I reply:
    "_Cottleston, Cottleston, Cottleston Pie_." Cottleston, Cottleston, Cottleston Pie,
    Why does a chicken, I don't know why.
    Ask me a riddle and I reply:
    "_Cottleston, Cottleston, Cottleston Pie_." I am, Why, what's the matter? You seem so sad, Eeyore. Your birthday? Presents? Birthday cake? _Where?_ No, But is it really your birthday? Oh! Well, Many happy returns of the day, Eeyore. But it isn't _my_ birthday. But you said 'Many happy returns'---- Oh, I see, Stay there! Hallo, Piglet, What are _you_ trying to do? Let me do it for you, I have just seen Eeyore, and poor Eeyore is in
a Very Sad Condition, because it's his birthday, and nobody has taken
any notice of it, and he's very Gloomy--you know what Eeyore is--and
there he was, and----What a long time whoever lives here is answering
this door. Oh! So it is, Well, let's go in. I'm giving this to Eeyore, as a present. What are _you_
going to give? No, That would _not_ be a good plan. That, Piglet, is a _very_ good idea. It is just what Eeyore wants to
cheer him up. Nobody can be uncheered with a balloon. Dear, dear, I didn't know it was as late as that. Lucky I brought this
with me, Many a bear going out on a warm day like this
would never have thought of bringing a little something with him. Now let me see, where was I going? Ah, yes, Eeyore. _Bother!_ What _shall_ I do? I _must_ give him
_something_. Well, it's a very nice pot, even if there's no honey in it, and if I
washed it clean, and got somebody to write '_A Happy Birthday_' on it,
Eeyore could keep things in it, which might be Useful. Good morning, Owl, Many happy returns of Eeyore's birthday, What are you giving him, Owl? I'm giving him a Useful Pot to Keep Things In, and I wanted to ask
you---- Yes, and I wanted to ask you---- _That_ was what I wanted to ask you, Because my spelling
is Wobbly. It's good spelling but it Wobbles, and the letters get in the
wrong places. Would _you_ write 'A Happy Birthday' on it for me? No, That would _not_ be a good plan. Now I'll just wash it
first, and then you can write on it. Christopher Robin told me what it said, and _then_ I could. It's a nice long one, Oh, I see, Many happy returns of the day, It's a Useful Pot, Here it is. And it's got 'A Very Happy
Birthday with love from Pooh' written on it. That's what all that
writing is. And it's for putting things in. There! Oh, no, Eeyore, Balloons are much too big to go into Pots.
What you do with a balloon is, you hold the ballon---- So it does! It goes in! I'm very glad, that I thought of giving you a
Useful Pot to put things in. How did
they come here? Oh! In the Usual Way. Ah! And Eeyore, And Owl, Oh, and Eeyore, I was forgetting _him_. _I_ make it fifteen. Fifteen. Your family. Yes, you said---- Oh, I see, _Aha!_ _Aha! Aha!_ ... Of course, we could say 'Aha!' even if we hadn't stolen Baby Roo. I know, I suppose it's just
practice, I wonder if Kanga will have to practise too so
as to understand it. What about me? I suppose _I_ shan't be useful? Impossible
without Me! _That_ sort of Bear. No, Not yet, What _do_ I do? Oh! What about? You mean like telling her a little bit of poetry or something? Good afternoon, Kanga. Hallo, Roo, my little fellow! Oh, Kanga, I don't
know if you are interested in Poetry at all? Oh! Talking of Poetry, I made up a little piece as I was
coming along. It went like this. Er--now let me see---- LINES WRITTEN BY A BEAR OF VERY LITTLE BRAIN

    On Monday, when the sun is hot
    I wonder to myself a lot:
    "Now is it true, or is it not,"
    "That what is which and which is what?"

    On Tuesday, when it hails and snows,
    The feeling on me grows and grows
    That hardly anybody knows
    If those are these or these are those.

    On Wednesday, when the sky is blue,
    And I have nothing else to do,
    I sometimes wonder if it's true
    That who is what and what is who.

    On Thursday, when it starts to freeze
    And hoar-frost twinkles on the trees,
    How very readily one sees
    That these are whose--but whose are these?

    On Friday--- Talking of Poetry, have you ever noticed that tree
right over there? Right over there, I can see a bird in it from here, Or is it a fish? Is it a starling or a blackbird? Rabbit had to go away, I think he thought of something he
had to go and see about suddenly. I think Piglet thought of something at the same time. Suddenly. I wish I could jump like that, Some can and some can't.
That's how it is. _Sing Ho! for the life of a Bear._ That's a very good start for a song, but what about the second
line? Ho, Perhaps it would be better, if I sang Hi for the
life of a Bear. Very well, then, I shall sing that first line twice, and perhaps if I sing it
very quickly, I shall find myself singing the third and fourth lines
before I have time to think of them, and that will be a Good Song. Now
then: Sing Ho! for the life of a Bear!
          Sing Ho! for the life of a Bear!
    I don't much mind if it rains or snows,
    'Cos I've got a lot of honey on my nice new nose,
    I don't much care if it snows or thaws,
    'Cos I've got a lot of honey on my nice clean paws!
          Sing Ho! for a Bear!
          Sing Ho! for a Pooh!
    And I'll have a little something in an hour or two! and if I go on singing it much longer, it
will be time for the little something, and then the last line won't be
true. Good-morning, Christopher Robin, That's bad, And that's that, What do we do next? Going on an Expotition? I don't think I've ever
been on one of those. Where are we going to on this Expotition? Oh! I know. Oh! What _is_ the North Pole? Oh! I see, Are bears any good at discovering it? Bring what? Oh! I thought you said Provisions. I'll go and
tell them. I've got a message for you. We're all going on an Expotition with Christopher Robin! A sort of boat, I think, Yes. And we're going to discover a Pole or something. Or was it a Mole?
Anyhow we're going to discover it. Yes. And we've got to bring Pro--things to eat with us. In case we want
to eat them. Now I'm going down to Piglet's. Tell Kanga, will you? Oh! Piglet, we're going on an Expotition, all of
us, with things to eat. To discover something. Oh! just something. Christopher Robin didn't say anything about fierce. He just said it had
an 'x'. This is the first verse, My song. This one. Well, if you listen, Piglet, you'll hear it. They all went off to discover the Pole,
      Owl and Piglet and Rabbit and all;
    It's a Thing you Discover, as I've been tole
      By Owl and Piglet and Rabbit and all.
    Eeyore, Christopher Robin and Pooh
    And Rabbit's relations all went too--
    And where the Pole was none of them knew....
      Sing Hey! for Owl and Rabbit and all! Hush! What sort of bush? A gorse-bush? So is a gorse-bush sometimes, I am, Eat all our what? That's a good idea, I believe I am, Ow! Yes, I was. I thought so. Well, _I_ think---- Pooh, where did you find that pole? I just found it, I thought it ought to be useful. I just
picked it up. Oh! Hullo, Eeyore, Use what? I wasn't talking about anything, No, That wasn't me, Perhaps it was somebody else. Yes, This is Serious, I must have an Escape. Bother! All that wet for nothing. What's
that bit of paper doing? It's a Missage, that's what it is. And that
letter is a 'P,' and so is that, and so is that, and 'P' means 'Pooh,'
so it's a very important Missage to me, and I can't read it. I must find
Christopher Robin or Owl or Piglet, one of those Clever Readers who can
read things, and they will tell me what this missage means. Only I can't
swim. Bother! If a bottle can float, then a jar can float, and if a jar floats, I can
sit on the top of it, if it's a very big jar. All boats have to have a
name, so I shall call mine _The Floating Bear_. Here I am, On my boat, I had a Very Important Missage sent me
in a bottle, and owing to having got some water in my eyes, I couldn't
read it, so I brought it to you. On my boat. Isn't there anything about Pooh in it? Oh, are those 'P's' piglets? I thought they were poohs. I ought to say, that it isn't just an ordinary sort of boat. Sometimes it's a
Boat, and sometimes it's more of an Accident. It all depends. On whether I'm on the top of it or underneath it. There! Three of us with Piglet. We might go in your umbrella, We might go in your umbrella, We might go in your umbrella, Oh! Will there be those little cake things with pink sugar
icing? A party for Me? How grand! Hallo, Roo! I don't know, I thought it was _once_. But I suppose it isn't. So would I, Oh! Thank-you, What's for breakfast? What do _you_ say, Piglet? It's the same thing, 

Christopher Robin - Story DIALOGUES
Good morning, Winnie-_ther_-Pooh, A balloon? What do you want a balloon for? But you don't get honey with balloons! Which one would you like? Wouldn't they notice _you_ underneath the balloon? Then you had better have the blue balloon, Hooray! You look like a Bear holding on to a balloon, Not very much. Hallo! What sort of thing? Perhaps they think that you're after their honey. Yes? I think so. Silly old Bear! Shall I put my umbrella up? No. Yes? Are they? Would they? How? Of course I have, But if I do that, it will spoil the
balloon, Did I miss? I'm so sorry, Silly old
Bear, Use his front door again? Of course he'll use
his front door again. If we can't pull you out, Pooh, we might push you back. Then there's only one thing to be done, We shall have to
wait for you to get thin again. About a week, I should think. You can _stay_ here all right, silly old Bear. It's getting you out
which is so difficult. I'm afraid no meals, because of getting thin
quicker. But we _will_ read to you. _Now!_ Silly old Bear! I've got two names, Silly old Bear, what _were_ you doing? First you went round
the spinney twice by yourself, and then Piglet ran after you and you
went round again together, and then you were just going round a fourth
time---- You're the Best Bear in All the World, I saw a Heffalump to-day, Piglet. Just lumping along, I don't think it saw
_me_. You don't often see them, Whatever's the matter, Piglet? Where? What did it look like? Well, I shall go and
look at it. Come on. I can hear _something_, Oh, Bear! How I do love you! In the Usual Way, if you know
what I mean, Pooh, You can't be Roo, because I've just seen Roo playing in
Rabbit's house. Oh, you're not Piglet, I know Piglet well, and he's _quite_
a different colour. Perhaps it's some relation of Pooh's, What
about a nephew or an uncle or something? I shall call it Pootel, Henry Pootel for
short. Hallo, Pooh Bear. I can't get this boot on. Do you think you could very kindly lean against me, 'cos I keep pulling
so hard that I fall over backwards. We are all going on an Expedition, Thank you, Pooh. Expedition, silly old Bear. It's got an 'x' in it. We're going to discover the North Pole. It's just a thing you discover, Of course they are. And Rabbit and Kanga and all of you. It's an
Expedition. That's what an Expedition means. A long line of everybody.
You'd better tell the others to get ready, while I see if my gun's all
right. And we must all bring Provisions. Come on! Hush! we're just coming
to a Dangerous Place. It's just the place, for an Ambush. Halt! I think, that we ought to eat all our
Provisions now, so that we shan't have so much to carry. Have you all got something? I didn't want the others to hear, It's--I wondered--It's only--Rabbit, I suppose _you_ don't know, What
does the North Pole _look_ like? I did know once, only I've sort of forgotten, I suppose it's just a pole stuck in the ground? Yes, that's what I thought. That's what we're looking for, All right, Roo, I'm coming, Pooh, the Expedition is over. You
have found the North Pole! Poor old Eeyore. I'll dry it for you, Never mind, Eeyore, Is
_that_ better? Pooh's found the North Pole, Isn't that
lovely? Yes, There's a South Pole, and I expect there's an
East Pole and a West Pole, though people don't like talking about them. I say, Owl, isn't this fun? I'm on an
island! The what? Yes, It has. The who? Yes, there is. Have you seen Pooh? I hope he's all right, I've been wondering
about him. I expect Piglet's with him. Do you think they're all right,
Owl? Do go and see, Owl. Because Pooh hasn't got very much brain, and he
might do something silly, and I do love him so, Owl. Do you see, Owl? Not there? Oh, Pooh! Where _are_ you? Pooh! How did you get here, Pooh? But it's from Piglet! We must rescue him at once! I thought he was with _you_, Pooh. Owl,
could you rescue him on your back? Then would you fly to him at _once_ and say that Rescue is Coming? And
Pooh and I will think of a Rescue and come as quick as ever we can. Oh,
don't _talk_, Owl, go on quick! Now then, Pooh, where's your boat? Depends on what? Oh! Well, where is it? But it's too small for two of us, That makes it smaller still. Oh, Pooh Bear, what shall we do? ? ? ? !!!!!! I shall call this boat _The Brain of Pooh_, Owl, I am going to give a party. And it's to be a special sort of party, because it's because of what
Pooh did when he did what he did to save Piglet from the flood. Yes, so will you tell Pooh as quickly as you can, and all the others,
because it will be to-morrow. So will you go and tell them, Owl? This party, is a party because of what
someone did, and we all know who it was, and it's his party, because of
what he did, and I've got a present for him and here it is. Where is it? Here it is! Pass it down to silly
old Pooh. It's for Pooh. Of course it is. The best bear in all the world. 

Rabbit DIALOGUES
No! You needn't shout so loud. I heard
you quite well the first time. Nobody. No, I don't _think_ so, It isn't _meant_ to be. He has gone to see his friend Pooh Bear, who is a great friend of his. What sort of Me? Are you sure? Oh, well, then, come in. You were quite right, It _is_
you. Glad to see you. Well, I wasn't sure. You know how it is in the Forest. One can't have
_anybody_ coming into one's house. One has to be _careful_. What about a
mouthful of something? Honey or condensed milk with your bread? Must you? As a matter of fact, I was going out myself directly. Well, good-bye, if you're sure you won't have any more. No, there wasn't. Hallo, are you stuck? Here, give us a paw. The fact is, you're stuck. It all comes, of eating too much. I thought at
the time, only I didn't like to say anything, that one of us was eating too much, and I knew
if wasn't _me_, Well, well, I shall go and fetch Christopher
Robin. So should I, Good, I mean, that having got _so_ far, it seems a pity to
waste it. We'll read to you, And I hope it won't snow, And I say, old fellow, you're taking up a good deal of room
in my house--_do_ you mind if I use your back legs as a towel-horse?
Because, I mean, there they are--doing nothing--and it would be very
convenient just to hang the towels on them. What I don't like about it is this, Here are we--you,
Pooh, and you, Piglet, and Me--and suddenly---- And Eeyore--and then suddenly---- And Owl--and then all of a sudden---- Here--we--are, all--of--us,
and then, suddenly, we wake up one morning and, what do we find? We find
a Strange Animal among us. An animal of whom we have never even heard
before! An animal who carries her family about with her in her pocket!
Suppose _I_ carried _my_ family about with me in _my_ pocket, how many
pockets should I want? Seventeen, isn't it? And one more for a
handkerchief--that's eighteen. Eighteen pockets in one suit! I haven't
time. What? Fifteen what? What about them? Did I? The question is, What are we to do about Kanga? The best way, would be this. The best way would be to
steal Baby Roo and hide him, and then when Kanga says, 'Where's Baby
Roo?' we say, '_Aha!_' Pooh, you haven't any brain. We say '_Aha!_' so that Kanga knows that _we_ know where Baby Roo is.
'_Aha!_' means 'We'll tell you where Baby Roo is, if you promise to go
away from the Forest and never come back.' Now don't talk while I
think. Piglet, you haven't any pluck. It is because you are a very small animal that you will be Useful in
the adventure before us. Without Pooh, the
adventure would be impossible. Now listen all of you, How do you mean? Then we all say '_Aha!_' Yes. Why, what's the trouble, Piglet? The winter months? Oh, yes, yes, that's all right. Well, Pooh? You see what you have to
do? Well, you just have to talk very hard to Kanga so as she doesn't notice
anything. Anything you like. That's it, Splendid. Now come along. Go on, You'll like this piece of poetry, You must listen very carefully, _How_ did it go, Pooh? You ought to look at that tree right over there, Shall I
lift you in, Roo? You ought to see that bird from here, Unless it's a
fish. So it is, That's the whole question, Is it a blackbird or a
starling? In you go, Roo! Hallo, Rabbit, is that you? Let's pretend it isn't, and see what happens. I'll give it to him. What is it when we're on it? Oh! that sort. We are, are we? I didn't ask them, They just came. They
always do. They can march at the end, after Eeyore. We're starting, I must go. Yes, yes, of course, Quite so, Well, Now you're asking me. It's a funny thing, but I've sort of forgotten too,
although I did know _once_. Sure to be a pole, because of calling it a pole, and if
it's a pole, well, I should think it would be sticking in the ground,
shouldn't you, because there'd be nowhere else to stick it. The only thing, is, _where is it sticking_? Roo's fallen in! Get something across the stream lower down, some of you fellows, 

Piglet DIALOGUES
Well, there you are, that proves it, Hallo! what are _you_ doing? Hunting what? Tracking what? What do you think you'll answer? Tracks, Paw-marks. Oh, Pooh! Do you think it's a--a--a Woozle? What's the matter? _What?_ Pooh! Do you think it is another Woozle? I _think_, I _think_ that I have
just remembered something. I have just remembered something that I
forgot to do yesterday and shan't be able to do to-morrow. So I suppose
I really ought to go back and do it now. It isn't the sort of thing you can do in the afternoon, It's a very particular morning thing, that has to be done in
the morning, and, if possible, between the hours of----What would you
say the time was? Between, as I was saying, the hours of twelve and twelve five. So,
really, dear old Pooh, if you'll excuse me----_What's that?_ Ah, then you'll be all right, You'll be quite safe with
_him_. Good-bye, What was it doing? I saw one once, At least, I think I did, Only
perhaps it wasn't. So did I, Not now, Not at this time of year, If you see what I mean, Pooh, But, on the other hand,
Pooh, we must remember, What have you decided, Pooh? Pooh, I will. How shall we do it? Why? Why would he fall in? Not if he was looking at the sky. That must be it, Well, I should do it like this. I should make a Trap,
and I should put a Jar of Honey in the Trap, and you would smell it, and
you would go in after it, and---- Yes, well never mind about that. There you would be, and there I should
catch you. Now the first thing to think of is, What do Heffalumps like?
I should think acorns, shouldn't you? We'll get a lot of----I say, wake
up, Pooh! All right, honey then, Honey, _I'll_ dig the pit, while _you_ go and get the honey. Yes, it is. No doubt about that. And honey, I should say, right down
to the bottom of the jar. Unless, of course, somebody put
cheese in at the bottom just for a joke. Perhaps I had better go a
_little_ further ... just in case ... in case Heffalumps _don't_
like cheese ... same as me.... Ah! I
_was_ right. It _is_ honey, right the way down. Got it? No, it isn't! Is that all you've got left? Well, good night, Pooh, And we meet at six o'clock to-morrow morning by the Pine Trees,
and see how many Heffalumps we've got in our Trap. No. Why do you want string? Oh! ... I _think_ Heffalumps come if you whistle. Good night! That's funny, I know I had a jar of honey there. A full
jar, full of honey right up to the top, and it had HUNNY written on it,
so that I should know it was honey. That's very funny. It's very, very funny,
    'Cos I _know_ I had some honey;
    'Cos it had a label on,
            Saying HUNNY.
    A goloptious full-up pot too,
    And I don't know where it's got to,
    No, I don't know where it's gone--
            Well, it's funny. Oh! Yes, Quite so. Oh, dear, oh, dear, oh, dear! Help, help! a Heffalump, a Horrible Heffalump! Help, help, a
Herrible Hoffalump! Hoff, Hoff, a Hellible Horralump! Holl, Holl, a
Hoffable Hellerump! Heff, a
Heff--a Heff--a Heffalump. Up there, Like--like----It had the biggest head you ever saw, Christopher Robin.
A great enormous thing, like--like nothing. A huge big--well, like a--I
don't know--like an enormous big nothing. Like a jar. I can hear it, can't you? There! Isn't it _awful_? Hallo, Pooh, I was trying to reach the knocker, I just came
round---- But Pooh, it's your own house! Couldn't I give it too? From both of us? All right, then, I'll give him a balloon. I've got one left from my
party. I'll go and get it now, shall I? Well,
even if I'm in the moon, I needn't be face downwards all the time, Well, that's funny, I wonder what that bang was. I
couldn't have made such a noise just falling down. And where's my
balloon? And what's that small piece of damp rag doing? Oh, dear! Oh, dear, oh, dearie, dearie, dear! Well, it's
too late now. I can't go back, and I haven't another balloon, and
perhaps Eeyore doesn't _like_ balloons so _very_ much. Good morning, Eeyore, Many happy returns of the day, Many hap---- Many happy returns of the day, Of course, Eeyore. Yes. Yes, Eeyore, and I've brought you a present. A present, Yes. Of course, Eeyore. Yes, Eeyore, and I brought you a balloon. Yes, but I'm afraid--I'm very sorry, Eeyore--but when I was running
along to bring it you, I fell down. No, but I--I--oh, Eeyore, I burst the balloon! Yes, Eeyore, Here it is. With--with
many happy returns of the day. Yes. Red. About as big as me. So it does! And it comes out! I'm very glad, that I thought of giving you
Something to put in a Useful Pot. Sixteen, Never mind, Pooh, There's just one thing, I was talking
to Christopher Robin, and he said that a Kanga was Generally Regarded as
One of the Fiercer Animals. I am not frightened of Fierce Animals in the
ordinary way, but it is well known that, if One of the Fiercer Animals
is Deprived of Its Young, it becomes as fierce as Two of the Fiercer
Animals. In which case '_Aha!_' is perhaps a _foolish_ thing to say. It is hard to be brave, when you're
only a Very Small Animal. Never mind, Pooh, Another time perhaps. Oh! And--Afterwards? When Kanga _does_ Discover the Difference? All three of us? Oh! Nothing, as long as _we all three_ say it. As long as we
all three say it, I don't mind, but I
shouldn't care to say '_Aha!_' by myself. It wouldn't sound _nearly_ so
well. By the way, you _are_ quite sure about what you said
about the winter months? Yes, only being Fierce in the Winter Months. You'll love it, So as not to miss any of it, It isn't a fish, it's a bird, this                              take
    "If      is          shall      really    to
                flying I      never              it." _Ooooooo!_ _Ow!_ _Ooooooo-ow, Ooooooo-ow,
Ooooooo-ow_ _Aha!_ _Aha!_ _Aha!_ Kanga, I see that the time has come to spleak painly. I am _not_ Roo, I am Piglet! Can't you _see_? Haven't you got _eyes_? _Look_ at
me! Ow! Let me out! I'm Piglet! You--you--you did it on purpose, W-w-what medicine? Christopher Robin, Christopher Robin! Tell Kanga who I
am! She keeps saying I'm Roo. I'm _not_ Roo, am I? There you are! I told you so. I'm Piglet. To discover what? Nothing fierce? It isn't their necks I mind, It's their teeth.
But if Christopher Robin is coming I don't mind anything. First verse of what? What song? Which one? How do you know I'm not listening? Hush! Owl, Pooh's whisper was a
perfectly private whisper, and there was no need---- An Ambush, as I was about to explain to Pooh, is a sort
of Surprise. It's an Ambush, Pooh, when people jump at you suddenly, All that we've brought, Oo, I say If only, I had been in
Pooh's house, or Christopher Robin's house, or Rabbit's house when it
began to rain, then I should have had Company all this time, instead of
being here all alone, with nothing to do except wonder when it will
stop. It's a little Anxious, to be a Very Small Animal
Entirely Surrounded by Water. Christopher Robin and Pooh could escape by
Climbing Trees, and Kanga could escape by Jumping, and Rabbit could
escape by Burrowing, and Owl could escape by Flying, and Eeyore could
escape by--by Making a Loud Noise Until Rescued, and here am I,
surrounded by water and I can't do _anything_. There's Pooh, Pooh hasn't much Brain, but he
never comes to any harm. He does silly things and they turn out right.
There's Owl. Owl hasn't exactly got Brain, but he Knows Things. He would
know the Right Thing to Do when Surrounded by Water. There's Rabbit. He
hasn't Learnt in Books, but he can always Think of a Clever Plan.
There's Kanga. She isn't Clever, Kanga isn't, but she would be so
anxious about Roo that she would do a Good Thing to Do without thinking
about It. And then there's Eeyore. And Eeyore is so miserable anyhow
that he wouldn't mind about this. But I wonder what Christopher Robin
would do? So now, somebody else will have to do something, and I
hope they will do it soon, because if they don't I shall have to swim,
which I can't, so I hope they do it soon. I wish Pooh were here. It's so much more friendly with
two. How interesting, and did she? What's Eeyore talking about? I thought this was _your_ party. I'd sooner it was yours than Eeyore's, When you wake up in the morning, Pooh, what's
the first thing you say to yourself? I say, I wonder what's going to happen exciting _to-day_? 

Eeyore DIALOGUES
Why? Wherefore? Inasmuch
as which? How do you
do? Not very how, I don't seem to have felt at all how for a
long time. What _has_ happened to it? Are you sure? Then what is? Let's have a look, I
believe you're right. That Accounts for a Good Deal, It Explains
Everything. No Wonder. Somebody must have taken it, How Like Them, Thank you, Pooh, You're a real friend, Not like Some, Pathetic, That's what it is. Pathetic. As I thought, No better from _this_ side. But nobody minds.
Nobody cares. Pathetic, that's what it is. Good morning, Pooh Bear, If it _is_ a good
morning, Which I doubt, Nothing, Pooh Bear, nothing. We can't all, and some of us don't. That's
all there is to it. Gaiety. Song-and-dance. Here we go round the mulberry bush. Bon-hommy, French word meaning bonhommy, I'm not complaining, but There It Is. That's right, Sing. Umty-tiddly, umty-too. Here we go
gathering Nuts and May. Enjoy yourself. Some can, _Is_ anything the matter? Sad? Why should I be sad? It's my birthday. The happiest day of the
year. Of course it is. Can't you see? Look at all the presents I have had. Look at the birthday cake. Candles
and pink sugar. Can't you see them? Neither can I, Joke, Ha ha! It is. And many happy returns to you, Pooh Bear. No, it's mine. Well, why not? You don't always want to be miserable on my birthday, do
you? It's bad enough, being miserable
myself, what with no presents and no cake and no candles, and no proper
notice taken of me at all, but if everybody else is going to be
miserable too---- Good morning, Little Piglet, If it _is_ a good morning, Which I doubt, Not that it matters, Just say that again, Wait a moment. I did this yesterday, It's quite easy. It's so as I can hear
better.... There, that's done it! Now then, what were you saying? Meaning me? My birthday? Me having a real birthday? I must have that in the other ear, Now then. Meaning me again? My birthday still? Me going on having a real birthday? _Balloon?_ You did say balloon? One of those big
coloured things you blow up? Gaiety, song-and-dance, here we are and
there we are? Dear, dear, how unlucky! You ran too fast, I expect. You didn't hurt
yourself, Little Piglet? My balloon? My birthday balloon? Is this it? My present? The balloon? Thank you, Piglet, You don't mind my asking, but what colour was this balloon when it--when it _was_ a balloon? I just wondered.... Red, My favourite
colour.... How big was it? I just wondered.... About as big as Piglet, My favourite size. Well, well. Thank you, Pooh, I'm having them, I've had it, Why! I believe my Balloon will just go into that Pot! Not mine, Look, Piglet! Doesn't it? It goes in and out like anything. What I say, is that it's unsettling. I didn't want to
come on this Expo--what Pooh said. I only came to oblige. But here I
am; and if I am the end of the Expo--what we're talking about--then
let me _be_ the end. But if, every time I want to sit down for a
little rest, I have to brush away half a dozen of Rabbit's smaller
friends-and-relations first, then this isn't an Expo--whatever it
is--at all, it's simply a Confused Noise. That's what _I_ say. I'm not asking anybody, I'm just telling everybody. We
can look for the North Pole, or we can play 'Here we go gathering Nuts
and May' with the end part of an ant's nest. It's all the same to me. All right, We're going. Only Don't Blame Me. _Hush!_ All except me, As Usual. I suppose none of you are sitting on a thistle by any
chance? Thank you, Pooh. If you've quite finished with it. It don't do them any Good, you know, sitting on them, Takes all the Life out of them. Remember that
another time, all of you. A little Consideration, a little Thought for
Others, makes all the difference. I don't hold with all this washing, This modern
Behind-the-ears nonsense. What do _you_ think, Pooh? So much for _washing_, All this washing; but catch on to my tail, little
Roo, and you'll be all right Tell Roo to be quick, somebody, My tail's getting cold. I
don't want to mention it, but I just mention it. I don't want to
complain but there it is. My tail's cold. As I expected, Lost all feeling. Numbed it. That's what it's
done. Numbed it. Well, as long as nobody minds, I suppose it's all
right. Thank you, Christopher Robin. You're the only one who seems to
understand about tails. They don't think--that's what the matter with
some of these others. They've no imagination. A tail isn't a tail to
_them_, it's just a Little Bit Extra at the back. It's feeling more like a tail perhaps. It Belongs again, if you know
what I mean. Hullo, Pooh. Thank you for asking, but I shall be able to use it again
in a day or two. What we are talking about. My mistake again. I thought you were saying how sorry you were about my
tail, being all numb, and could you do anything to help? Well, thank him for me when you see him. Is that it? Is that what we were looking for? Oh! Well, anyhow--it didn't rain, Very interesting, I suppose they will be sending me down
the odd bits which got trodden on. Kind and Thoughtful. Not at all,
don't mention it. What's that like? Yes, I heard you. Who dropped it? You mean Piglet. The little fellow with the excited ears. That's
Piglet. I'll tell him. Are you sure? All of them, except Eeyore? Ah! A mistake, no doubt, but still, I shall come. Only
don't blame _me_ if it rains. It will rain soon, you see if it
doesn't, Friends, including oddments, it is a great pleasure, or
perhaps I had better say it has been a pleasure so far, to see you at my
party. What I did was nothing. Any of you--except Rabbit and Owl and
Kanga--would have done the same. Oh, and Pooh. My remarks do not, of
course, apply to Piglet and Roo, because they are too small. Any of you
would have done the same. But it just happened to be Me. It was not, I
need hardly say, with an idea of getting what Christopher Robin is
looking for now Try under the table that I did what I did--but because
I feel that we should all do what we can to help. I feel that we should
all---- AS--I--WAS--SAYING, as I was saying
when I was interrupted by various Loud Sounds, I feel that---- For Pooh? I might have known, After all, one can't complain. I
have my friends. Somebody spoke to me only yesterday. And was it last
week or the week before that Rabbit bumped into me and said 'Bother!'
The Social Round. Always something going on. This writing business. Pencils and
what-not. Over-rated, if you ask me. Silly stuff. Nothing in it. 

Owl DIALOGUES
Hallo, Pooh, How's things? Well, the customary procedure in such cases is as follows. It means the Thing to Do. The thing to do is as follows. First, Issue a Reward. Then---- I _didn't_ sneeze. Excuse me, Pooh, I didn't. You can't sneeze without knowing it. What I _said_ was, 'First _Issue_ a Reward'. A Reward! We write a notice to say that we will
give a large something to anybody who finds Eeyore's tail. Well, then, we write out this notice, and we put it up all
over the forest. It was he who wrote the ones on my front door for me. Did you see them,
Pooh? Didn't you see them? Come and look at
them now. Handsome bell-rope, isn't it? I just came across it in the Forest. It was hanging over a bush, and I
thought at first somebody lived there, so I rang it, and nothing
happened, and then I rang it again very loudly, and it came off in my
hand, and as nobody seemed to want it, I took it home, and---- Who? Fond of it? Good morning, Pooh, Oh, is that what it is? What are _you_ giving him, Pooh? Is this it? Somebody has been keeping honey in it, You ought to write '_A Happy Birthday_' on it. It's a nice pot, Couldn't I give
it too? From both of us? Can you read, Pooh? There's a notice
about knocking and ringing outside my door, which Christopher Robin
wrote. Could you read it? Well, I'll tell you what _this_ says, and then you'll be able to. I'm just saying 'A Happy Birthday', Well, _actually_, of course, I'm saying 'A Very Happy Birthday with
love from Pooh.' Naturally it takes a good deal of pencil to say a long
thing like that. I see what Eeyore means, If you ask me---- Come on! Hush! My dear Pooh, don't you know what an
Ambush is? An Ambush, is a sort of Surprise. We are not _talking_ about gorse-bushes, How
do you do, The atmospheric conditions have been very unfavourable lately, It has been raining, The flood-level has reached an unprecedented height. There's a lot of water about, However, the prospects are rapidly becoming more favourable. At any
moment---- No. At any moment---- I expect so. You see, at any moment---- That's all right, I'll go. Back directly. Pooh isn't there, Has _been_ there. He's been sitting on a branch of his tree outside his
house with nine pots of honey. But he isn't there now. I don't think so, It is doubtful if
the necessary dorsal muscles---- You are, are you? Oh, that's what it's for, is it? Oh, it will, will it? Pooh, Christopher Robin is giving a party. Eeyore, Christopher Robin is giving a party. There is an Invitation for you. An Invitation! This isn't anything to eat, it's asking you to the party. To-morrow. No, no! It's you! Of course I'm sure. Christopher Robin said 'All of them! Tell all of
them.' All of them, Hallo, my little fellow, 


Kanga DIALOGUES
Just one more jump, dear, and then we must
go home. Good afternoon, Pooh. We were just going home, Good afternoon, Rabbit. Good
afternoon, Piglet. Hardly at all, Roo, dear, just one more jump and then we must go home. Fancy! Now Roo, dear---- Oh, yes, Yes, it is, isn't it? Just one more jump, Roo, dear, and then we really _must_ be
going. Where? Now, Roo---- No, Now jump in, Roo, dear, and we'll go home. Why, where's Rabbit? Are you all
right, Roo, dear? And Piglet? Well, we must be getting home, Good-bye, Pooh. If they
are having a joke with me, I will have a joke with them. Now then, Roo, dear, Bed-time. Bath first, I am not at all sure, that it
wouldn't be a good idea to have a _cold_ bath this evening. Would you
like that, Roo, dear? Funny little Roo, Yes, dear, yes, And imitating Piglet's voice
too! So clever of him, What _will_ he be doing next? I _am_ looking, Roo, dear, And you know
what I told you yesterday about making faces. If you go on making faces
like Piglet's, you will grow up to _look_ like Piglet--and _then_ think
how sorry you will be. Now then, into the bath, and don't let me have to
speak to you about it again. Don't open the mouth, dear, or the soap goes in, There!
What did I tell you? That's right, dear, don't say anything, Now, there's your medicine, and then bed. To make you grow big and strong, dear. You don't want to grow up small
and weak like Piglet, do you? Well, then! Come in, Well! Fancy that! Fancy my making a mistake like that. I knew it wasn't Piglet, I wonder who it can be. Things to eat. Hush! Are you all right, Roo dear? Are you _sure_ you're all right, Roo dear? Drink up your milk first, dear, and talk afterwards. Roo, dear! 

Baby Roo DIALOGUES
Look at me jumping, Hush! Look at me swimming! Yes! Look at me sw---- Look at me swimming! Look at me swimming, Did you see me swimming? Pooh, did you see me swimming? That's called
swimming, what I was doing. Rabbit, did you see what I was doing?
Swimming. Hallo, Piglet! I say, Piglet! What do you think I was doing!
Swimming! Christopher Robin, did you see me---- Here I am! Oh, there you are. Did you see me swimming? Hallo, Pooh! Hallo, Piglet! Hallo, Eeyore! Hallo,
Owl! H--hup! Was it me? H--hup! 



