Thomas Gradgrind DIALOGUES
NOW, what I want is, Facts.  Teach these boys and girls nothing but
Facts.  Facts alone are wanted in life.  Plant nothing else, and root out
everything else.  You can only form the minds of reasoning animals upon
Facts: nothing else will ever be of any service to them.  This is the
principle on which I bring up my own children, and this is the principle
on which I bring up these children.  Stick to Facts, sir! In this life, we want nothing but Facts, sir; nothing but Facts! boys and girls, sir, Girl number twenty, I don't know that girl.  Who is that girl? Sissy is not a name, Don't call yourself Sissy.
Call yourself Cecilia. Then he has no business to do it, Tell him he
mustn't.  Cecilia Jupe.  Let me see.  What is your father? We don't want to know anything about that, here.  You mustn't tell us
about that, here.  Your father breaks horses, don't he? You mustn't tell us about the ring, here.  Very well, then.  Describe
your father as a horsebreaker.  He doctors sick horses, I dare say? Very well, then.  He is a veterinary surgeon, a farrier, and
horsebreaker.  Give me your definition of a horse. Girl number twenty unable to define a horse! Girl number twenty
possessed of no facts, in reference to one of the commonest of animals!
Some boy's definition of a horse.  Bitzer, yours. Bitzer, Your definition of a horse. Now girl number twenty, You know what a horse
is. You must paper it, whether you like it or not.
Don't tell _us_ you wouldn't paper it.  What do you mean, boy? You are not, Cecilia Jupe, to do
anything of that kind. Fact, fact, fact! Mr. M'Choakumchild, we only wait for
you. an eminently practical Now, to think of these vagabonds, attracting the young rabble from a model school. Louisa!!  Thomas!! In the name of wonder, idleness, and folly! what do you do here? What it was like? Thomas, though I have the fact before me, I find it difficult to believe
that you, with your education and resources, should have brought your
sister to a scene like this. I am sorry to hear it.  I am very sorry indeed to hear it.  It makes
Thomas no better, and it makes you worse, Louisa. You!  Thomas and you, to whom the circle of the sciences is open; Thomas
and you, who may be said to be replete with facts; Thomas and you, who
have been trained to mathematical exactness; Thomas and you, here! In this degraded position!  I am amazed. Tired?  Of what? Say not another word, You are childish.  I
will hear no more. What would your
best friends say, Louisa?  Do you attach no value to their good opinion?
What would Mr. Bounderby say? What, would Mr. Bounderby say? What would Mr. Bounderby say? And, Mrs. Gradgrind, I should as
soon have expected to find my children reading poetry. Bounderby, you
are always so interested in my young people   particularly in Louisa   that I
make no apology for saying to you, I am very much vexed by this
discovery.  I have systematically devoted myself (as you know) to the
education of the reason of my family.  The reason is (as you know) the
only faculty to which education should be addressed. And yet,
Bounderby, it would appear from this unexpected circumstance of to-day,
though in itself a trifling one, as if something had crept into Thomas's
and Louisa's minds which is   or rather, which is not   I don't know that I
can express myself better than by saying   which has never been intended to
be developed, and in which their reason has no part. Then comes the question; with his
eyes on the fire, "in what has this vulgar curiosity its rise? I hope not, I confess, however, that the
misgiving _has_ crossed me on my way home. Whether, whether any instructor or servant can
have suggested anything?  Whether Louisa or Thomas can have been reading
anything?  Whether, in spite of all precautions, any idle story-book can
have got into the house?  Because, in minds that have been practically
formed by rule and line, from the cradle upwards, this is so curious, so
incomprehensible. Cecilia Jupe, by name, Why, the fact is, I saw the girl myself, for the first time, only just
now.  She specially applied here at the house to be admitted, as not
regularly belonging to our town, and   yes, you are right, Bounderby, you
are right. Louisa certainly did see her, for she mentioned the application to me.
But Louisa saw her, I have no doubt, in Mrs. Gradgrind's presence. I am much of your opinion. Are you walking? I have the father's address.
Perhaps you would not mind walking to town with me? This man lives at Pod's End, and I don't quite know Pod's End, Which is it, Bounderby? Halloa! Stop!  Where are you going! Stop! Why are you tearing about the streets, in this
improper manner? Run after? Who would run after _you_? What do you mean, boy? What are you doing?  How
dare you dash against   everybody   in this manner? Was this boy running after you, Jupe? Truly, I think so, Bitzer, turn you about and
take yourself home. Jupe, stay here a moment.  Let me hear of your
running in this manner any more, boy, and you will hear of me through the
master of the school.  You understand what I mean.  Go along. Now, girl, take this gentleman and me to your
father's; we are going there.  What have you got in that bottle you are
carrying? And this is
Pod's End; is it, Jupe? What does she mean! Back in a minute?  It's more
than a mile off. It was, His daughter has gone to fetch him, but I
can't wait; therefore, if you please, I will leave a message for him with
you. Has   what has he missed? Oh! that is tip, is it? This is a very obtrusive lad! What does this unmannerly boy mean, by Tight-Jeff? Yes, I was. I never saw the man in my life. Do you mean that he has deserted his daughter? Why has he been   so very much   Goosed? Pray, why will she never believe it of him? It is creditable to you, who have never been apprenticed, to express
that opinion, Oh!  Indeed? I was not aware of its being the custom
to apprentice young persons to On the contrary, I came to tell him that her
connections made her not an object for the school, and that she must not
attend any more.  Still, if her father really has left her, without any
connivance on her part   Bounderby, let me have a word with you. But even as an example to Louisa, of what this pursuit which
has been the subject of a vulgar curiosity, leads to and ends in.  Think
of it, Bounderby, in that point of view. Yes. I shall have something to propose to her when she comes back, I dare say not, Nothing for me, I thank you, It is of no moment, whether this person is to be expected
back at any time, or the contrary.  He is gone away, and there is no
present expectation of his return.  That, I believe, is agreed on all
hands. Well then.  I, who came here to inform the father of the poor girl,
Jupe, that she could not be received at the school any more, in
consequence of there being practical objections, into which I need not
enter, to the reception there of the children of persons so employed, am
prepared in these altered circumstances to make a proposal.  I am willing
to take charge of you, Jupe, and to educate you, and provide for you.
The only condition (over and above your good behaviour) I make is, that
you decide now, at once, whether to accompany me or remain here.  Also,
that if you accompany me now, it is understood that you communicate no
more with any of your friends who are here present.  These observations
comprise the whole of the case. The only observation I will make to you, Jupe, in the way of influencing
your decision, is, that it is highly desirable to have a sound practical
education, and that even your father himself (from what I understand)
appears, on your behalf, to have known and felt that much. Be sure you know your own mind, Jupe, I
say no more.  Be sure you know your own mind! You may be quite at ease, you may be quite at ease, Jupe, on that score.
In such a case, your father, I apprehend, must find out Mr. Must find out Mr. Sleary, who would then let him know where you went.  I
should have no power of keeping you against his wish, and he would have
no difficulty, at any time, in finding Mr. Thomas Gradgrind of Coketown.
I am well known. Now, Jupe, If you are quite determined, come! Can Jupe be sent here, Bounderby? I hope, Bounderby, that
this was merely an oversight. Jupe, I have made up my mind to take you into my house; and, when you
are not in attendance at the school, to employ you about Mrs. Gradgrind,
who is rather an invalid.  I have explained to Miss Louisa   this is Miss
Louisa   the miserable but natural end of your late career; and you are to
expressly understand that the whole of that subject is past, and is not
to be referred to any more.  From this time you begin your history.  You
are, at present, ignorant, I know. I shall have the satisfaction of causing you to be strictly educated;
and you will be a living proof to all who come into communication with
you, of the advantages of the training you will receive.  You will be
reclaimed and formed.  You have been in the habit now of reading to your
father, and those people I found you among, I dare say? Never mind Merrylegs, Jupe, I don't ask about him.  I understand you to have been in the habit of
reading to your father? And what, did you read to
your father, Jupe? Hush! that is enough.  Never breathe a word of
such destructive nonsense any more.  Bounderby, this is a case for rigid
training, and I shall observe it with interest. Louisa, never wonder! must be kept to it. No, Jupe, nothing of the sort, Louisa is becoming, almost a young woman. Thomas is becoming, almost a young man. Really, the period has arrived when Thomas ought
to go to Bounderby. I fear, Jupe, that your continuance at the school
any longer would be useless. I cannot disguise from you, Jupe, that the result of your probation there has disappointed me; has
greatly disappointed me.  You have not acquired, under Mr. and Mrs.
M'Choakumchild, anything like that amount of exact knowledge which I
looked for.  You are extremely deficient in your facts.  Your
acquaintance with figures is very limited.  You are altogether backward,
and below the mark. Yes, yes, I believe you have tried hard; I have
observed you, and I can find no fault in that respect. No, Jupe, no, No.  The course you pursued, you
pursued according to the system   the system   and there is no more to be
said about it.  I can only suppose that the circumstances of your early
life were too unfavourable to the development of your reasoning powers,
and that we began too late.  Still, as I have said already, I am
disappointed. Don't shed tears, Don't shed tears.  I don't
complain of you.  You are an affectionate, earnest, good young
woman   and   and we must make that do. You are useful to Mrs. Gradgrind, and (in a generally pervading way) you
are serviceable in the family also; so I understand from Miss Louisa,
and, indeed, so I have observed myself.  I therefore hope, that you can make yourself happy in those relations. I understand you, you still refer to your father.
I have heard from Miss Louisa that you still preserve that bottle.  Well!
If your training in the science of arriving at exact results had been
more successful, you would have been wiser on these points.  I will say
no more. Quite a young woman, Dear me! My dear Louisa, you are a woman! My dear, I must speak with you alone and
seriously.  Come to me in my room after breakfast to-morrow, will you? Your hands are rather cold, Louisa.  Are you not well? And cheerful? That's well, My dear Louisa, I prepared you last night to give me
your serious attention in the conversation we are now going to have
together.  You have been so well trained, and you do, I am happy to say,
so much justice to the education you have received, that I have perfect
confidence in your good sense.  You are not impulsive, you are not
romantic, you are accustomed to view everything from the strong
dispassionate ground of reason and calculation.  From that ground alone,
I know you will view and consider what I am going to communicate. Louisa, my dear, you are the subject of a proposal of marriage that has
been made to me. a proposal of
marriage, my dear. Well! you are even more dispassionate than I expected,
Louisa.  Or, perhaps, you are not unprepared for the announcement I have
it in charge to make? What you say, my dear Louisa, is perfectly reasonable.  I have
undertaken then to let you know that   in short, that Mr. Bounderby has
informed me that he has long watched your progress with particular
interest and pleasure, and has long hoped that the time might ultimately
arrive when he should offer you his hand in marriage.  That time, to
which he has so long, and certainly with great constancy, looked forward,
is now come.  Mr. Bounderby has made his proposal of marriage to me, and
has entreated me to make it known to you, and to express his hope that
you will take it into your favourable consideration. Well, my child, I   really   cannot take upon myself to say. My dear Louisa, no.  No.  I ask nothing. Really, my dear, it is difficult to answer your
question Certainly, my dear.  Because; because the reply depends so materially, Louisa, on
the sense in which we use the expression.  Now, Mr. Bounderby does not do
you the injustice, and does not do himself the injustice, of pretending
to anything fanciful, fantastic, or (I am using synonymous terms)
sentimental.  Mr. Bounderby would have seen you grow up under his eyes,
to very little purpose, if he could so far forget what is due to your
good sense, not to say to his, as to address you from any such ground.
Therefore, perhaps the expression itself   I merely suggest this to you, my
dear   may be a little misplaced. Why, my dear Louisa, I would advise you (since you ask me) to consider this question,
as you have been accustomed to consider every other question, simply as
one of tangible Fact.  The ignorant and the giddy may embarrass such
subjects with irrelevant fancies, and other absurdities that have no
existence, properly viewed   really no existence   but it is no compliment to
you to say, that you know better.  Now, what are the Facts of this case?
You are, we will say in round numbers, twenty years of age; Mr. Bounderby
is, we will say in round numbers, fifty.  There is some disparity in your
respective years, but in your means and positions there is none; on the
contrary, there is a great suitability.  Then the question arises, Is
this one disparity sufficient to operate as a bar to such a marriage?  In
considering this question, it is not unimportant to take into account the
statistics of marriage, so far as they have yet been obtained, in England
and Wales.  I find, on reference to the figures, that a large proportion
of these marriages are contracted between parties of very unequal ages,
and that the elder of these contracting parties is, in rather more than
three-fourths of these instances, the bridegroom.  It is remarkable as
showing the wide prevalence of this law, that among the natives of the
British possessions in India, also in a considerable part of China, and
among the Calmucks of Tartary, the best means of computation yet
furnished us by travellers, yield similar results.  The disparity I have
mentioned, therefore, almost ceases to be disparity, and (virtually) all
but disappears. Louisa, it appears to me that nothing can be
plainer.  Confining yourself rigidly to Fact, the question of Fact you
state to yourself is: Does Mr. Bounderby ask me to marry him?  Yes, he
does.  The sole remaining question then is: Shall I marry him?  I think
nothing can be plainer than that? Precisely.  And it is satisfactory to me, as your father, my dear
Louisa, to know that you do not come to the consideration of that
question with the previous habits of mind, and habits of life, that
belong to many young women. I now leave you to judge for yourself, I have
stated the case, as such cases are usually stated among practical minds;
I have stated it, as the case of your mother and myself was stated in its
time.  The rest, my dear Louisa, is for you to decide. Are you consulting the chimneys of the
Coketown works, Louisa? Of course I know that, Louisa.  I do not see the application of the
remark. It is short, no doubt, my dear.  Still, the average duration of human
life is proved to have increased of late years.  The calculations of
various life assurance and annuity offices, among other figures which
cannot go wrong, have established the fact. O indeed?  Still, I need not point out to you,
Louisa, that it is governed by the laws which govern lives in the
aggregate. How, matter?  What matter, my dear? Certainly, my dear. It is quite right, my dear, to be
exact.  I will observe your very proper request.  Have you any wish in
reference to the period of your marriage, my child? Louisa, I have not considered it essential to ask you one question,
because the possibility implied in it appeared to me to be too remote.
But perhaps I ought to do so.  You have never entertained in secret any
other proposal? My dear Louisa, You
correct me justly.  I merely wished to discharge my duty. My dear, quite true, quite
true. My dear Louisa, you abundantly repay my care.  Kiss me,
my dear girl. I
may assure you now, my favourite child, that I am made happy by the sound
decision at which you have arrived.  Mr. Bounderby is a very remarkable
man; and what little disparity can be said to exist between you   if any   is
more than counterbalanced by the tone your mind has acquired.  It has
always been my object so to educate you, as that you might, while still
in your early youth, be (if I may so express myself) almost any age.
Kiss me once more, Louisa.  Now, let us go and find your mother. Mrs. Gradgrind, allow me to present to you Mrs.
Bounderby. Mrs. Gradgrind, what do you mean? Louisa! What is the matter?  How strange you look!  And good Heaven, have you come here exposed to this
storm? What is it?  I conjure you, Louisa, tell me what is the matter. Yes, Louisa. Curse the hour?
Curse the hour? Yes, Louisa. No.  No, my poor child. O no, no.  No, Louisa. I never knew you were unhappy, my child. And you so young, Louisa! Louisa! What can I do, child?  Ask me what you will. For you, Louisa! My dear Louisa.  My poor daughter. My unfortunate child. It would be hopeless for me, Louisa, to endeavour to tell you how
overwhelmed I have been, and still am, by what broke upon me last night.
The ground on which I stand has ceased to be solid under my feet.  The
only support on which I leaned, and the strength of which it seemed, and
still does seem, impossible to question, has given way in an instant.  I
am stunned by these discoveries.  I have no selfish meaning in what I
say; but I find the shock of what broke upon me last night, to be very
heavy indeed. I will not say, Louisa, that if you had by any happy chance undeceived
me some time ago, it would have been better for us both; better for your
peace, and better for mine.  For I am sensible that it may not have been
a part of my system to invite any confidence of that kind.  I had proved
my   my system to myself, and I have rigidly administered it; and I must
bear the responsibility of its failures.  I only entreat you to believe,
my favourite child, that I have meant to do right. My dear, I have remained all night at my table, pondering again and
again on what has so painfully passed between us.  When I consider your
character; when I consider that what has been known to me for hours, has
been concealed by you for years; when I consider under what immediate
pressure it has been forced from you at last; I come to the conclusion
that I cannot but mistrust myself. But, if I see reason to mistrust myself for the
past, Louisa, I should also mistrust myself for the present and the
future.  To speak unreservedly to you, I do.  I am far from feeling
convinced now, however differently I might have felt only this time
yesterday, that I am fit for the trust you repose in me; that I know how
to respond to the appeal you have come home to make to me; that I have
the right instinct   supposing it for the moment to be some quality of that
nature   how to help you, and to set you right, my child. Some persons hold, that there is a
wisdom of the Head, and that there is a wisdom of the Heart.  I have not
supposed so; but, as I have said, I mistrust myself now.  I have supposed
the head to be all-sufficient.  It may not be all-sufficient; how can I
venture this morning to say it is!  If that other kind of wisdom should
be what I have neglected, and should be the instinct that is wanted,
Louisa Louisa, I have been absent from
here, my dear, a good deal of late; and though your sister's training has
been pursued according to   the system, it has necessarily been modified by daily
associations begun, in her case, at an early age.  I ask you   ignorantly
and humbly, my daughter   for the better, do you think? O my child, my child! I am an unhappy
man to see you thus!  What avails it to me that you do not reproach me,
if I so bitterly reproach myself! Louisa, I have a misgiving that some change may have been slowly
working about me in this house, by mere love and gratitude: that what the
Head had left undone and could not do, the Heart may have been doing
silently.  Can it be so? I am not too proud to believe it, Louisa.  How could I be arrogant, and
you before me!  Can it be so?  Is it so, my dear? You have missed my letter! Bounderby, I
speak of a very special letter I have written to you, in reference to
Louisa. Indeed! It is not necessary to repeat its tenor, Bounderby.  I know what
passed. Undoubtedly.  She is here. My dear Bounderby, let me beg you to restrain these loud out-breaks, on
all accounts.  Louisa is here.  The moment she could detach herself from
that interview with the person of whom you speak, and whom I deeply
regret to have been the means of introducing to you, Louisa hurried here,
for protection.  I myself had not been at home many hours, when I
received her   here, in this room.  She hurried by the train to town, she
ran from town to this house, through a raging storm, and presented
herself before me in a state of distraction.  Of course, she has remained
here ever since.  Let me entreat you, for your own sake and for hers, to
be more quiet. My dear Bounderby, Bounderby, we are all liable to mistakes Perhaps I thought so.  But, I say we are all liable to mistakes and I
should feel sensible of your delicacy, and grateful for it, if you would
spare me these references to Harthouse.  I shall not associate him in our
conversation with your intimacy and encouragement; pray do not persist in
connecting him with mine. Well, well! Bounderby, I see reason
to doubt whether we have ever quite understood Louisa. Let me say I, then, I doubt whether I have understood Louisa.  I doubt whether I
have been quite right in the manner of her education. I think your good sense will perceive, that whatever the merits of such a system may be, it would
be difficult of general application to girls. Well, we will not enter into the question.  I
assure you I have no desire to be controversial.  I seek to repair what
is amiss, if I possibly can; and I hope you will assist me in a good
spirit, Bounderby, for I have been very much distressed. In the course of a few hours, my dear Bounderby, I appear to
myself to have become better informed as to Louisa's character, than in
previous years.  The enlightenment has been painfully forced upon me, and
the discovery is not mine.  I think there are   Bounderby, you will be
surprised to hear me say this   I think there are qualities in Louisa,
which   which have been harshly neglected, and   and a little perverted.
And   and I would suggest to you, that   that if you would kindly meet me in
a timely endeavour to leave her to her better nature for a while   and to
encourage it to develop itself by tenderness and consideration   it   it
would be the better for the happiness of all of us.  Louisa, has always been my favourite
child. I   I had intended to recommend, my dear Bounderby, that you should allow
Louisa to remain here on a visit, and be attended by Sissy (I mean of
course Cecilia Jupe), who understands her, and in whom she trusts. I fear there is at present a general incompatibility between Louisa,
and   and   and almost all the relations in which I have placed her, Bounderby, I hoped, after my entreaty, you would
have taken a different tone. Bounderby, this is unreasonable. Not, I fear, to spare me. Bounderby, the less we say to-night
the better, I think. What do I mean, Bounderby? I mean that I hope you may be induced to arrange in a friendly manner,
for allowing Louisa a period of repose and reflection here, which may
tend to a gradual alteration for the better in many respects. If you put it in those terms. I have already said, I fear Louisa has not been understood.  Is it
asking too much, Bounderby, that you, so far her elder, should aid in
trying to set her right?  You have accepted a great charge of her; for
better for worse, for I was merely going on to remark, Bounderby, that we may all be more or
less in the wrong, not even excepting you; and that some yielding on your
part, remembering the trust you have accepted, may not only be an act of
true kindness, but perhaps a debt incurred towards Louisa. Let me seriously entreat you to reconsider this, Bounderby, before you commit yourself to such a decision. Louisa, my dear, I have never, that I know of, seen this man.  Do you
believe him to be implicated? That is to say, you once persuaded yourself to believe it, from knowing
him to be suspected.  His appearance and manner; are they so honest? And her confidence not to be shaken!  I ask myself, does the real culprit know of these accusations?  Where is he?
Who is he? I am surprised, madam, that in your old age
you have the face to claim Mr. Bounderby for your son, after your
unnatural and inhuman treatment of him. Dear! Yes; dear in his self-made prosperity,
madam, I dare say.  Not very dear, however, when you deserted him in his
infancy, and left him to the brutality of a drunken grandmother. Do you deny, then, madam, that you left your son to   to be brought up in
the gutter? Not now, my dears; in the evening. I am not able yet   to-morrow. Your wretched brother, Do you think he had
planned this robbery, when he went with you to the lodging? The poor man being about to leave the town, it came into his evil brain
to cast suspicion on him? He had some conversation with the poor man.  Did he take him aside? Let me know, if your thoughts present your guilty
brother in the same dark view as mine. Too plain! Too plain! And now, how is he to be found?  How is he to be saved from justice?  In
the few hours that I can possibly allow to elapse before I publish the
truth, how is he to be found by us, and only by us?  Ten thousand pounds
could not effect it. It is
always you, my child! Thank Heaven! He may be got abroad yet. How was this done? This robbery, I forced the safe myself over night, and shut it up ajar before I went
away.  I had had the key that was found, made long before.  I dropped it
that morning, that it might be supposed to have been used.  I didn't take
the money all at once.  I pretended to put my balance away every night,
but I didn't.  Now you know all about it. If a thunderbolt had fallen on me, it would have
shocked me less than this! You must be got to Liverpool, and sent abroad. But look at him, Will any coach I don't understand, Here is your letter, All necessary means will be
provided for you.  Atone, by repentance and better conduct, for the
shocking action you have committed, and the dreadful consequences to
which it has led.  Give me your hand, my poor boy, and may God forgive
you as I do! Bitzer, have you a heart? Is it accessible, to any compassionate
influence? What motive   even what motive in reason   can you have for preventing the
escape of this wretched youth, and crushing his
miserable father?  See his sister here.  Pity us! If this is solely a question of self-interest with you What sum of money, will you set against your
expected promotion? Bitzer, Bitzer, I have but one chance left
to soften you.  You were many years at my school.  If, in remembrance of
the pains bestowed upon you there, you can persuade yourself in any
degree to disregard your present interest and release my son, I entreat
and pray you to give him the benefit of that remembrance. Their instinct, is surprising. His scent, being so fine. She keeps the bottle that he sent her for, to this hour; and she will
believe in his affection to the last moment of her life, 

Cecilia Jupe DIALOGUES
Sissy Jupe, sir, It's father as calls me Sissy, sir, He belongs to the horse-riding, if you please, sir. If you please, sir, when they can get any to break, they do break horses
in the ring, sir. Oh yes, sir. If you please, sir, I am very fond of flowers, It wouldn't hurt them, sir.  They wouldn't crush and wither, if you
please, sir.  They would be the pictures of what was very pretty and
pleasant, and I would fancy I was   I was run after, sir, and I wanted to get
away. Yes, sir, He frightened me so, with his cruel faces! Dear, no, sir!  It's the nine oils. The nine oils, sir, to rub father with. It's what our people aways use, sir, when they get any hurts in the
ring, They bruise themselves very bad sometimes. This is it, sir, and   if you wouldn't mind, sir   this is the house. It's only crossing the bar, sir, and up the stairs, if you wouldn't
mind, and waiting there for a moment till I get a candle.  If you should
hear a dog, sir, it's only Merrylegs, and he only barks. Father is not in our room, sir, If you wouldn't mind walking in, I'll find him directly. Father must have gone down to the Booth, sir.  I don't know why he
should go there, but he must be there; I'll bring him in a minute! O my dear father, my good kind father, where are you gone?  You are gone
to try to do me some good, I know!  You are gone away for my sake, I am
sure!  And how miserable and helpless you will be without me, poor, poor
father, until you come back! When father comes back, how will he ever find me if I go away! Oh, give me my clothes, give me my clothes, and let me
go away before I break my heart! No, no! Oh, no!  Pray let me
keep it for father till he comes back!  He will want it when he comes
back.  He had never thought of going away, when he sent me for it.  I
must keep it for him, if you please! Yes, sir, very, Only to father and Merrylegs, sir.  At least I mean to father, when
Merrylegs was always there. O, yes, sir, thousands of times.  They were the happiest   O, of all the
happy times we had together, sir! About the Fairies, sir, and the Dwarf, and the Hunchback, and the
Genies, and about To do unto others as I
would that they should do unto me. It would be a fine thing to be you, Miss Louisa! I should know so much, Miss Louisa.  All that is difficult to me now,
would be so easy then. I should not be the worse,
Miss Louisa. But, if you please, Miss Louisa, I am   O so stupid! You don't know, what a stupid girl I am.  All
through school hours I make mistakes.  Mr. and Mrs. M'Choakumchild call
me up, over and over again, regularly to make mistakes.  I can't help
them.  They seem to come natural to me. O no! They know everything. I am almost ashamed, But to-day, for
instance, Mr. M'Choakumchild was explaining to us about Natural
Prosperity. Yes, it was.   But isn't it the same? National Prosperity.  And he said, Now, this schoolroom is a Nation.
And in this nation, there are fifty millions of money.  Isn't this a
prosperous nation?  Girl number twenty, isn't this a prosperous nation,
and a'n't you in a thriving state? Miss Louisa, I said I didn't know.  I thought I couldn't know whether it
was a prosperous nation or not, and whether I was in a thriving state or
not, unless I knew who had got the money, and whether any of it was mine.
But that had nothing to do with it.  It was not in the figures at all, Yes, Miss Louisa, I know it was, now.  Then Mr. M'Choakumchild said he
would try me again.  And he said, This schoolroom is an immense town, and
in it there are a million of inhabitants, and only five-and-twenty are
starved to death in the streets, in the course of a year.  What is your
remark on that proportion?  And my remark was   for I couldn't think of a
better one   that I thought it must be just as hard upon those who were
starved, whether the others were a million, or a million million.  And
that was wrong, too. Then Mr. M'Choakumchild said he would try me once more.  And he said,
Here are the stutterings Yes, Miss Louisa   they always remind me of stutterings, and that's
another of my mistakes   of accidents upon the sea.  And I find (Mr.
M'Choakumchild said) that in a given time a hundred thousand persons went
to sea on long voyages, and only five hundred of them were drowned or
burnt to death.  What is the percentage?  And I said, Miss; I said it was nothing. Nothing, Miss   to the relations and friends of the people who were
killed.  I shall never learn, And the worst of all is,
that although my poor father wished me so much to learn, and although I
am so anxious to learn, because he wished me to, I am afraid I don't like
it. No, Miss Louisa, father knows very little indeed.  It's as much as he can do to
write; and it's more than people in general can do to read his writing.
Though it's plain to _me_. Father says she was quite a scholar.  She died when I was born.  She
was; she was a
dancer. O yes!  As dearly as he loves me.  Father loved me, first, for her sake.
He carried me about with him when I was quite a baby.  We have never been
asunder from that time. Only for my good.  Nobody understands him as I do; nobody knows him as I
do.  When he left me for my good   he never would have left me for his
own   I know he was almost broken-hearted with the trial.  He will not be
happy for a single minute, till he comes back. We travelled about the country, and had no fixed place to live in.
Father's a; a clown. Yes.  But they wouldn't laugh sometimes, and then father cried.  Lately,
they very often wouldn't laugh, and he used to come home despairing.
Father's not like most.  Those who didn't know him as well as I do, and
didn't love him as dearly as I do, might believe he was not quite right.
Sometimes they played tricks upon him; but they never knew how he felt
them, and shrunk up, when he was alone with me.  He was far, far timider
than they thought! I hope so, and father
said I was.  It was because he grew so scared and trembling, and because
he felt himself to be a poor, weak, ignorant, helpless man (those used to
be his words), that he wanted me so much to know a great deal, and be
different from him.  I used to read to him to cheer his courage, and he
was very fond of that.  They were wrong books   I am never to speak of them
here   but we didn't know there was any harm in them. O very much!  They kept him, many times, from what did him real harm.
And often and often of a night, he used to forget all his troubles in
wondering whether the Sultan would let the lady go on with the story, or
would have her head cut off before it was finished. Always, always! Kinder and kinder
than I can tell.  He was angry only one night, and that was not to me,
but Merrylegs.  Merrylegs; is his
performing dog. Father, soon after they came home from performing, told Merrylegs to
jump up on the backs of the two chairs and stand across them   which is one
of his tricks.  He looked at father, and didn't do it at once.
Everything of father's had gone wrong that night, and he hadn't pleased
the public at all.  He cried out that the very dog knew he was failing,
and had no compassion on him.  Then he beat the dog, and I was
frightened, and said, And he stopped,
and the dog was bloody, and father lay down crying on the floor with the
dog in his arms, and the dog licked his face. Dear Miss Louisa, I
came home from the school that afternoon, and found poor father just come
home too, from the booth.  And he sat rocking himself over the fire, as
if he was in pain.  And I said, (as he
did sometimes, like they all did), and he said, And when I came to stoop down and look up at his face, I saw that he was
crying.  The more I spoke to him, the more he hid his face; and at first
he shook all over, and said nothing but and At last poor father said that he had
given no satisfaction again, and never did give any satisfaction now, and
that he was a shame and disgrace, and I should have done better without
him all along.  I said all the affectionate things to him that came into
my heart, and presently he was quiet and I sat down by him, and told him
all about the school and everything that had been said and done there.
When I had no more left to tell, he put his arms round my neck, and
kissed me a great many times.  Then he asked me to fetch some of the
stuff he used, for the little hurt he had had, and to get it at the best
place, which was at the other end of town from there; and then, after
kissing me again, he let me go.  When I had gone down-stairs, I turned
back that I might be a little bit more company to him yet, and looked in
at the door, and said, Father
shook his head and said, and I left him sitting by the fire.  Then the thought
must have come upon him, poor, poor father! of going away to try
something for my sake; for when I came back, he was gone. There's no more to tell, Miss Louisa.  I keep the nine oils ready for
him, and I know he will come back.  Every letter that I see in Mr.
Gradgrind's hand takes my breath away and blinds my eyes, for I think it
comes from father, or from Mr. Sleary about father.  Mr. Sleary promised
to write as soon as ever father should be heard of, and I trust to him to
keep his word. I beg your pardon,
sir, for being troublesome   but   have you had any letter yet about me? I am afraid it would, sir, I am sorry, sir, but I know it is quite true.  Yet I
have tried hard, sir. Thank you, sir.  I have thought sometimes; that
perhaps I tried to learn too much, and that if I had asked to be allowed
to try a little less, I might have I wish I could have made a better acknowledgment, sir, of your kindness
to a poor forlorn girl who had no claim upon you, and of your protection
of her. Thank you, sir, very much, I should have nothing to wish, sir, if I hope I have not disturbed you.  I have come to ask if you would let me
stay with you? Am I? I would be something to you,
if I might. Whatever you want most, if I could be that.  At all events, I would like
to try to be as near it as I can.  And however far off that may be, I
will never tire of trying.  Will you let me? No indeed, He told me that I might come in now, but he
sent me away from the room this morning   or at least I thought it best myself that I should be sent away, for I felt very
uncertain whether you would like to find me here. I hope not, for I have always loved you, and have always wished that you
should know it.  But you changed to me a little, shortly before you left
home.  Not that I wondered at it.  You knew so much, and I knew so
little, and it was so natural in many ways, going as you were among other
friends, that I had nothing to complain of, and was not at all hurt. May I try? No! No! O lay it here! Lay it here, my dear. I speak to Mr. Harthouse? If I do not understand   and I do not, sir' what your honour
as a gentleman binds you to, in other matters: I am sure I may rely upon it to
keep my visit secret, and to keep secret what I am going to say.  I will
rely upon it, if you will tell me I may so far trust I think, you have already guessed whom I left just now! I left her within an hour. At her father's. She hurried there last night.  She arrived there in great agitation, and
was insensible all through the night.  I live at her father's, and was
with her.  You may be sure, sir, you will never see her again as long as
you live. I have no charge from her. There is not the least hope.  The first object of my coming here, sir,
is to assure you that you must believe that there is no more hope of your
ever speaking with her again, than there would be if she had died when
she came home last night. It is still true.  There is no hope. I have only the commission of my love for her, and her love for me.  I
have no other trust, than that I have been with her since she came home,
and that she has given me her confidence.  I have no further trust, than
that I know something of her character and her marriage.  O Mr.
Harthouse, I think you had that trust too! Yes. Mr. Harthouse, the only reparation that remains with you, is to leave
here immediately and finally.  I am quite sure that you can mitigate in
no other way the wrong and harm you have done.  I am quite sure that it
is the only compensation you have left it in your power to make.  I do
not say that it is much, or that it is enough; but it is something, and
it is necessary.  Therefore, though without any other authority than I
have given you, and even without the knowledge of any other person than
yourself and myself, I ask you to depart from this place to-night, under
an obligation never to return to it. I am quite sure, that it is the only reparation in
your power, sir.  I am quite sure, or I would not have come here. I will trust to you, sir, and you will trust to me. _My_ name? Sissy Jupe. I am only a poor girl, I was separated from my
father   he was only a stroller   and taken pity on by Mr. Gradgrind.  I have
lived in the house ever since. It is Mr. Bounderby, and your brother
Mr. Tom, and a young woman who says her name is Rachael, and that you
know her. They want to see you.  Rachael has been crying, and seems angry. Did you tell him in your letter, that suspicion seemed
to have fallen upon him, because he had been seen about the Bank at
night?  He would then know what he would have to explain on coming back,
and would be ready. Then I will come next night too, I do believe so, with my whole heart.  I feel so
certain, Rachael, that the confidence you hold in yours against all
discouragement, is not like to be wrong, that I have no more doubt of him
than if I had known him through as many years of trial as you have. We all believe, up at the Lodge, Rachael, that he will be freed from
suspicion, sooner or later. You don't mistrust her now, Rachael? That is a dreadful thought, He might fall ill upon the journey back, and in such a case, there are many places on the
road where he might stop. True, Let us hope that to-morrow will bring something better, Rachael.  Come
into the air! You're not so hurried now, Rachael, and your hand is cooler. But you must not begin to fail, Rachael, for you may be wanted at any
time to stand by Stephen.  To-morrow is Saturday.  If no news comes
to-morrow, let us walk in the country on Sunday morning, and strengthen
you for another week.  Will you go? It is
so still here, Rachael, and the way is so untrodden, that I think we must
be the first who have been here all the summer. And yet
I don't know.  This has not been broken very long.  The wood is quite
fresh where it gave way.  Here are footsteps too.   O Rachael! I don't know.  There is a hat lying in the grass. Is there   has the hat any blood upon it? Rachael, I will go on a little by
myself. Rachael, dear Rachael, good Rachael, for the love of Heaven, not these
dreadful cries!  Think of Stephen, think of Stephen, think of Stephen! Rachael, Stephen may be living.  You wouldn't leave him lying maimed at
the bottom of this dreadful place, a moment, if you could bring help to
him? Don't stir from here, for his sake!  Let me go and listen. Rachael, we must lose not a moment.  We must
go in different directions, seeking aid.  You shall go by the way we have
come, and I will go forward by the path.  Tell any one you see, and every
one what has happened.  Think of Stephen, think of Stephen! We had our fears, before
yesterday; and when I saw you brought to the side of the litter last
night, and heard what passed (being close to Rachael all the time), I
went to him when no one saw, and said to him, He
was in a tremble before I whispered to him, and he started and trembled
more then, and said, I thought of father's old circus.  I have
not forgotten where Mr. Sleary goes at this time of year, and I read of
him in a paper only the other day.  I told him to hurry there, and tell
his name, and ask Mr. Sleary to hide him till I came. he said.  And I saw him shrink away among the
people. This is his sister.  Yes. 

Bitzer DIALOGUES
Quadruped.  Graminivorous.  Forty teeth, namely twenty-four grinders,
four eye-teeth, and twelve incisive.  Sheds coat in the spring; in marshy
countries, sheds hoofs, too.  Hoofs hard, but requiring to be shod with
iron.  Age known by marks in mouth. No, I wasn't, sir! Not till she run away from me.  But
the horse-riders never mind what they say, sir; they're famous for it.
You know the horse-riders are famous for never minding what they say, It's as well known in the town as   please, sir, as the
multiplication table isn't known to the horse-riders. Oh! Oh!  An't you one of the rest!  An't you a
horse-rider!  I never looked at her, sir.  I asked her if she would know
how to define a horse to-morrow, and offered to tell her again, and she
ran away, and I ran after her, sir, that she might know how to answer
when she was asked.  You wouldn't have thought of saying such mischief if
you hadn't been a horse-rider? Thank _you_, ma'am, All is shut up, ma'am. Well, ma'am, I can't say that I have heard anything particular.  Our
people are a bad lot, ma'am; but that is no news, unfortunately. Merely going on in the old way, ma'am.  Uniting, and leaguing, and
engaging to stand by one another. Yes, ma'am, They have done that, ma'am, but it rather fell
through, ma'am. Yes, ma'am, You couldn't put it clearer, I am
sure, ma'am. Not a very busy day, my lady.  About an average day. Yes, ma'am, pretty fair, ma'am.  With the usual exception. Pretty fair, ma'am.  With the usual exception, ma'am, Mr. Thomas, ma'am, I doubt Mr. Thomas very much, ma'am, I don't like his
ways at all. I beg your pardon, ma'am.  It's quite true that you did object to names
being used, and they're always best avoided. With the usual exception, ma'am, of an
individual. An individual, ma'am, has never been what he ought to
have been, since he first came into the place.  He is a dissipated,
extravagant idler.  He is not worth his salt, ma'am.  He wouldn't get it
either, if he hadn't a friend and relation at court, ma'am! I only hope, ma'am, that his friend and relation may
not supply him with the means of carrying on.  Otherwise, ma'am, we know
out of whose pocket _that_ money comes. He is to be pitied, ma'am.  The last party I have alluded to, is to be
pitied, ma'am, As to an individual, ma'am, he is as improvident as any of the people in this town.  And you
know what _their_ improvidence is, ma'am.  No one could wish to know it
better than a lady of your eminence does. Thank you, ma'am.  But, since you do refer to me, now look at me, ma'am.
I have put by a little, ma'am, already.  That gratuity which I receive at
Christmas, ma'am: I never touch it.  I don't even go the length of my
wages, though they're not high, ma'am.  Why can't they do as I have done,
ma'am?  What one person can do, another can do. As to their wanting recreations, ma'am, it's stuff and
nonsense.  _I_ don't want recreations.  I never did, and I never shall; I
don't like 'em.  As to their combining together; there are many of them,
I have no doubt, that by watching and informing upon one another could
earn a trifle now and then, whether in money or good will, and improve
their livelihood.  Then, why don't they improve it, ma'am!  It's the
first consideration of a rational creature, and it's what they pretend to
want. I am sure we are constantly hearing, ma'am, till it becomes quite
nauseous, concerning their wives and families, Why look
at me, ma'am!  I don't want a wife and family.  Why should they? Yes, ma'am, that's where it is.  If they were more
provident and less perverse, ma'am, what would they do?  They would say, or as the case might be, ma'am Thank you, ma'am, Would you wish
a little more hot water, ma'am, or is there anything else that I could
fetch you? Thank you, ma'am.  I shouldn't wish to disturb you at your meals, ma'am,
particularly tea, knowing your partiality for it, but there's a
gentleman been looking up here for a minute or so, ma'am, and he has come
across as if he was going to knock.  That _is_ his knock, ma'am, no
doubt. Yes, ma'am.  Would you wish the gentleman to be
shown in, ma'am? A stranger, ma'am, evidently. If you please, ma'am, the gentleman would wish to see you, Spends a deal of money on his dress, ma'am. Yes, ma'am, if that's worth the money. Besides which, ma'am, he looks to me as if he gamed. It's ridiculous, ma'am, because the chances are against
the players. Your name's Blackpool, ain't it? You are the Hand they have sent to Coventry, I mean? I supposed so, from their all appearing to keep away from you.  Mr.
Bounderby wants to speak to you.  You know his house, don't you? Then go straight up there, will you? You're expected,
and have only to tell the servant it's you.  I belong to the Bank; so, if
you go straight up without me (I was sent to fetch you), you'll save me a
walk. A hundred and fifty-four, seven, one, I'm sorry to interfere with your plans, but I can't allow myself to be done by horse-riders.  I must have young
Mr. Tom; he mustn't be got away by horse-riders; here he is in a smock
frock, and I must have him! The circulation, sir, couldn't be carried on without one.  No man, sir, acquainted
with the facts established by Harvey relating to the circulation of the
blood, can doubt that I have a heart. It is accessible to Reason, sir, And to nothing else. Sir, since you ask me what motive I have in reason, for taking young Mr. Tom
back to Coketown, it is only reasonable to let you know.  I have
suspected young Mr. Tom of this bank-robbery from the first.  I had had
my eye upon him before that time, for I knew his ways.  I have kept my
observations to myself, but I have made them; and I have got ample proofs
against him now, besides his running away, and besides his own
confession, which I was just in time to overhear.  I had the pleasure of
watching your house yesterday morning, and following you here.  I am
going to take young Mr. Tom back to Coketown, in order to deliver him
over to Mr. Bounderby.  Sir, I have no doubt whatever that Mr. Bounderby
will then promote me to young Mr. Tom's situation.  And I wish to have
his situation, sir, for it will be a rise to me, and will do me good. I beg your pardon for interrupting you, sir, but I am
sure you know that the whole social system is a question of
self-interest.  What you must always appeal to, is a person's
self-interest.  It's your only hold.  We are so constituted.  I was
brought up in that catechism when I was very young, sir, as you are
aware. Thank you, sir, for hinting at the proposal; but I
will not set any sum against it.  Knowing that your clear head would
propose that alternative, I have gone over the calculations in my mind;
and I find that to compound a felony, even on very high terms indeed,
would not be as safe and good for me as my improved prospects in the
Bank. I really wonder, sir, to find you taking a position so untenable.  My schooling was
paid for; it was a bargain; and when I came away, the bargain ended. I don't deny, that my schooling was cheap.  But that
comes right, sir.  I was made in the cheapest market, and have to dispose
of myself in the dearest. Pray don't do that, it's of no use doing that: it only
worries.  You seem to think that I have some animosity against young Mr.
Tom; whereas I have none at all.  I am only going, on the reasonable
grounds I have mentioned, to take him back to Coketown.  If he was to
resist, I should set up the cry of Stop thief!  But, he won't resist, you
may depend upon it. 

Josiah Bounderby DIALOGUES
Very well, That's a horse.  Now, let me ask you girls and boys, Would you paper a
room with representations of horses? Of course, No.  Why wouldn't you? You _must_ paper it, I'll explain to you, then, why you wouldn't paper a room with representations of
horses.  Do you ever see horses walking up and down the sides of rooms in
reality   in fact?  Do you? Of course no, Why, then, you are not to see anywhere, what you don't see in
fact; you are not to have anywhere, what you don't have in fact.  What is
called Taste, is only another name for Fact. This is a new principle, a discovery, a great discovery, Now, I'll try you again.  Suppose you were going to carpet a
room.  Would you use a carpet having a representation of flowers upon
it? Girl number twenty, So you would carpet your room   or your husband's room, if you were a
grown woman, and had a husband   with representations of flowers, would
you? Why would you? And is that why you would put tables and chairs upon them, and have
people walking over them with heavy boots? Ay, ay, ay!  But you mustn't fancy, That's it!  You are never to fancy. Fact, fact, fact! You are to be in all things regulated and governed, by fact.  We hope to have, before long, a board of fact, composed of
commissioners of fact, who will force the people to be a people of fact,
and of nothing but fact.  You must discard the word Fancy altogether.
You have nothing to do with it.  You are not to have, in any object of
use or ornament, what would be a contradiction in fact.  You don't walk
upon flowers in fact; you cannot be allowed to walk upon flowers in
carpets.  You don't find that foreign birds and butterflies come and
perch upon your crockery; you cannot be permitted to paint foreign birds
and butterflies upon your crockery.  You never meet with quadrupeds going
up and down walls; you must not have quadrupeds represented upon walls.
You must use, for all these purposes, combinations
and modifications (in primary colours) of mathematical figures which are
susceptible of proof and demonstration.  This is the new discovery.  This
is fact.  This is taste. Now, if Mr. M'Choakumchild, will proceed to give
his first lesson here, Mr. Gradgrind, I shall be happy, at your request,
to observe his mode of procedure. No!  As wet as a sop.  A foot of water in it, Cold?  I was born with inflammation of the lungs, and of everything
else, I believe, that was capable of inflammation, For years, ma'am, I was one of the most miserable little
wretches ever seen.  I was so sickly, that I was always moaning and
groaning.  I was so ragged and dirty, that you wouldn't have touched me
with a pair of tongs. How I fought through it, _I_ don't know, I was
determined, I suppose.  I have been a determined character in later life,
and I suppose I was then.  Here I am, Mrs. Gradgrind, anyhow, and nobody
to thank for my being here, but myself. _My_ mother?  Bolted, ma'am! My mother left me to my grandmother, and, according to
the best of my remembrance, my grandmother was the wickedest and the
worst old woman that ever lived.  If I got a little pair of shoes by any
chance, she would take 'em off and sell 'em for drink.  Why, I have known
that grandmother of mine lie in her bed and drink her four-teen glasses
of liquor before breakfast! She kept a chandler's shop, and kept me in an
egg-box.  That was the cot of _my_ infancy; an old egg-box.  As soon as I
was big enough to run away, of course I ran away.  Then I became a young
vagabond; and instead of one old woman knocking me about and starving me,
everybody of all ages knocked me about and starved me.  They were right;
they had no business to do anything else.  I was a nuisance, an
incumbrance, and a pest.  I know that very well. I was to pull through it, I suppose, Mrs. Gradgrind.  Whether I was to
do it or not, ma'am, I did it.  I pulled through it, though nobody threw
me out a rope.  Vagabond, errand-boy, vagabond, labourer, porter, clerk,
chief manager, small partner, Josiah Bounderby of Coketown.  Those are
the antecedents, and the culmination.  Josiah Bounderby of Coketown
learnt his letters from the outsides of the shops, Mrs. Gradgrind, and
was first able to tell the time upon a dial-plate, from studying the
steeple clock of St. Giles's Church, London, under the direction of a
drunken cripple, who was a convicted thief, and an incorrigible vagrant.
Tell Josiah Bounderby of Coketown, of your district schools and your
model schools, and your training schools, and your whole kettle-of-fish
of schools; and Josiah Bounderby of Coketown, tells you plainly, all
right, all correct   he hadn't such advantages   but let us have hard-headed,
solid-fisted people   the education that made him won't do for everybody,
he knows well   such and such his education was, however, and you may force
him to swallow boiling fat, but you shall never force him to suppress the
facts of his life. Well! what's the matter?  What is young
Thomas in the dumps about? There certainly is no reason in looking with interest at a parcel of
vagabonds, When I was a vagabond myself, nobody
looked with any interest at _me_; I know that. I'll tell you in what.  In idle imagination. In idle imagination, Gradgrind, A very bad thing
for anybody, but a cursed bad thing for a girl like Louisa.  I should ask
Mrs. Gradgrind's pardon for strong expressions, but that she knows very
well I am not a refined character.  Whoever expects refinement in _me_
will be disappointed.  I hadn't a refined bringing up. Stop a bit! You have one of those strollers' children in the
school. Now, stop a bit! How did she come there? Now, stop a bit! Louisa saw her when she
came? Pray, Mrs. Gradgrind, what passed? Now I tell you what, Gradgrind! Turn this girl to
the right about, and there's an end of it. Do it at once, has always been my motto from a child.
When I thought I would run away from my egg-box and my grandmother, I did
it at once.  Do you the same.  Do this at once! Not the least in the world, as long as you do it
at once! I never wear gloves, I didn't climb up the ladder in _them_.   Shouldn't be so high up,
if I had. It's all right now, Louisa: it's all right, young Thomas, you won't do so any more.  I'll answer for it's being all
over with father.  Well, Louisa, that's worth a kiss, isn't it? Always my pet; ain't you, Louisa? Good-bye,
Louisa! Her calling seems to be pretty well known among 'em, You'd have had the whole school peeping in a row, in a
week. Gin, The what? Then, what the devil do
you rub your father with nine oils for? Serve 'em right, for being idle. By George! when I was four or five years younger
than you, I had worse bruises upon me than ten oils, twenty oils, forty
oils, would have rubbed off.  I didn't get 'em by posture-making, but by
being banged about.  There was no rope-dancing for me; I danced on the
bare ground and was larruped with the rope. Merrylegs and nine oils, eh! Pretty well this, for a self-made man! You see, my friend, we are the kind of people
who know the value of time, and you are the kind of people who don't know
the value of time. Missed his tip. Nine oils, Merrylegs, missing tips, garters, banners, and Ponging, eh! Queer sort of company,
too, for a man who has raised himself! A Cackler! Here we go again! Good! This is good, Gradgrind!  A man so
fond of his daughter, that he runs away from her!  This is devilish good!
Ha! ha!  Now, I'll tell you what, young man.  I haven't always occupied
my present station of life.  I know what these things are.  You may be
astonished to hear it, but my mother   ran away from _me_. Very well, I was born in a ditch, and my mother ran
away from me.  Do I excuse her for it?  No.  Have I ever excused her for
it?  Not I.  What do I call her for it?  I call her probably the very
worst woman that ever lived in the world, except my drunken grandmother.
There's no family pride about me, there's no imaginative sentimental
humbug about me.  I call a spade a spade; and I call the mother of Josiah
Bounderby of Coketown, without any fear or any favour, what I should call
her if she had been the mother of Dick Jones of Wapping.  So, with this
man.  He is a runaway rogue and a vagabond, that's what he is, in
English. Perhaps so, Idleness, No, by the Lord
Harry!  Nor I! No.  _I_ say no.  I advise you not.  I say by
no means. Now, good people all, this is wanton waste of time.  Let the
girl understand the fact.  Let her take it from me, if you like, who have
been run away from, myself.  Here, what's your name!  Your father has
absconded   deserted you   and you mustn't expect to see him again as long as
you live. And yet, sir, how does it turn out
after all?  Why here she is at a hundred a year (I give her a hundred,
which she is pleased to term handsome), keeping the house of Josiah
Bounderby of Coketown! Princes and lords may flourish or may fade,
    A breath can make them, as a breath has made, Why, ma'am, I am thinking about Tom Gradgrind's whim; Tom Gradgrind's whim, ma'am, of bringing up the
tumbling-girl. She must wait, ma'am, till I know myself.  We
shall have Tom Gradgrind down here presently, I suppose.  If he should
wish her to remain here a day or two longer, of course she can, ma'am. I told him I would give her a shake-down here, last night, in order that
he might sleep on it before he decided to let her have any association
with Louisa. It's tolerably clear to _me_, that the little puss can
get small good out of such companionship. Yes, ma'am, I'm speaking of Louisa. Louisa, Louisa, Louisa. If you had said I was another father to Tom   young Tom, I mean, not my
friend Tom Gradgrind   you might have been nearer the mark.  I am going to
take young Tom into my office.  Going to have him under my wing, ma'am. I'm not going to take him at once; he is to finish his educational
cramming before then, By the Lord Harry, he'll have
enough of it, first and last!  He'd open his eyes, that boy would, if he
knew how empty of learning _my_ young maw was, at his time of life. But it's extraordinary the difficulty I have on scores of such
subjects, in speaking to any one on equal terms.  Here, for example, I
have been speaking to you this morning about tumblers.  Why, what do
_you_ know about tumblers?  At the time when, to have been a tumbler in
the mud of the streets, would have been a godsend to me, a prize in the
lottery to me, you were at the Italian Opera.  You were coming out of the
Italian Opera, ma'am, in white satin and jewels, a blaze of splendour,
when I hadn't a penny to buy a link to light you. Egad, ma'am, so was I, with the wrong side of it.  A
hard bed the pavement of its Arcade used to make, I assure you.  People
like you, ma'am, accustomed from infancy to lie on Down feathers, have no
idea _how_ hard a paving-stone is, without trying it.  No, no, it's of no
use my talking to _you_ about tumblers.  I should speak of foreign
dancers, and the West End of London, and May Fair, and lords and ladies
and honourables. Well, ma'am, perhaps some people may be pleased to
say that they do like to hear, in his own unpolished way, what Josiah
Bounderby, of Coketown, has gone through.  But you must confess that you
were born in the lap of luxury, yourself.  Come, ma'am, you know you were
born in the lap of luxury. And you were in crack society.  Devilish high society, You were in the tiptop fashion, and all the rest of it, Now, I tell you what, my girl.  The name of that lady by the teapot, is
Mrs. Sparsit.  That lady acts as mistress of this house, and she is a
highly connected lady.  Consequently, if ever you come again into any
room in this house, you will make a short stay in it if you don't behave
towards that lady in your most respectful manner.  Now, I don't care a
button what you do to _me_, because I don't affect to be anybody.  So far
from having high connections I have no connections at all, and I come of
the scum of the earth.  But towards that lady, I do care what you do; and
you shall do what is deferential and respectful, or you shall not come
here. My friend Tom Gradgrind suggests, Mrs. Sparsit, that
this was merely an oversight.  Very likely.  However, as you are aware,
ma'am, I don't allow of even oversights towards you. Well, I have given you my opinion already, and
I shouldn't do as you do.  But, very well, very well.  Since you are bent
upon it, _very_ well! Now, Stephen, what's the matter with _you_? Now, you know, we have never
had any difficulty with you, and you have never been one of the
unreasonable ones.  You don't expect to be set up in a coach and six, and
to be fed on turtle soup and venison, with a gold spoon, as a good many
of 'em do! and therefore I know already that you have not come here to make a
complaint.  Now, you know, I am certain of that, beforehand. Very well, You're a steady Hand, and
I was not mistaken.  Now, let me hear what it's all about.  As it's not
that, let me hear what it is.  What have you got to say?  Out with it,
lad! Now you know, this good lady is a born lady, a high lady.  You are not
to suppose because she keeps my house for me, that she hasn't been very
high up the tree   ah, up at the top of the tree!  Now, if you have got
anything to say that can't be said before a born lady, this lady will
leave the room.  If what you have got to say _can_ be said before a born
lady, this lady will stay where she is. Very well, Fire away! I have heard all this before, She took to
drinking, left off working, sold the furniture, pawned the clothes, and
played old Gooseberry. The more fool you, I think, I was acquainted with all this, you know, except
the last clause, long ago.  It's a bad job; that's what it is.  You had
better have been satisfied as you were, and not have got married.
However, it's too late to say that. You hear what this lady asks.  Was it an unequal marriage in point of
years, this unlucky job of yours? Well?  Why don't you go on? What do you mean? What are you talking about?  You took her for better
for worse. No how, Of course there is. Of course there is. Of course there is. Of course there is. Hem!  There's a sanctity in this relation of life, and   and   it must be kept up. Now, I tell you what! There _is_ such a law. But it's not for you at all.  It costs money.  It costs a mint of
money. Why, you'd have to go to Doctors' Commons with a suit, and you'd have to
go to a court of Common Law with a suit, and you'd have to go to the
House of Lords with a suit, and you'd have to get an Act of Parliament to
enable you to marry again, and it would cost you (if it was a case of
very plain sailing), I suppose from a thousand to fifteen hundred pound, Perhaps twice the money. Certainly not. Pooh, pooh!  Don't you talk nonsense, my good fellow, about things you don't understand; and don't you call the
Institutions of your country a muddle, or you'll get yourself into a real
muddle one of these fine mornings.  The institutions of your country are
not your piece-work, and the only thing you have got to do, is, to mind
your piece-work.  You didn't take your wife for fast and for loose; but
for better for worse.  If she has turned out worse   why, all we have got
to say is, she might have turned out better. Now, I'll tell you what! With what I shall call your unhallowed opinions, you have been
quite shocking this lady: who, as I have already told you, is a born
lady, and who, as I have not already told you, has had her own marriage
misfortunes to the tune of tens of thousands of pounds   tens of Thousands
of Pounds! Now, you have always
been a steady Hand hitherto; but my opinion is, and so I tell you
plainly, that you are turning into the wrong road.  You have been
listening to some mischievous stranger or other   they're always about   and
the best thing you can do is, to come out of that.  Now you know; I can see as far into a
grindstone as another man; farther than a good many, perhaps, because I
had my nose well kept to it when I was young.  I see traces of the turtle
soup, and venison, and gold spoon in this.  Yes, I do! By the Lord Harry,
I do! By George! if she takes it in the fainting way, I'll have the skin off
her nose, at all events! Good evening, ma'am, good evening. Your fireside, sir.  I freely
admit it.  It is for you to occupy it all, if you think proper. Don't go to the North Pole, ma'am! Mrs. Sparsit, ma'am, I have no occasion to say to you, that
you are not only a lady born and bred, but a devilish sensible woman. Mrs. Sparsit, ma'am, I am going to astonish you. I am going, ma'am, to marry Tom Gradgrind's daughter. Now confound this
woman, who could have even guessed that she would take it in this way! Well, ma'am, I am obliged to
you.  I hope I shall be. Well, ma'am, under these circumstances, I imagine
it would not be agreeable to a character like yours to remain here,
though you would be very welcome here. However, ma'am, there are apartments at the Bank,
where a born and bred lady, as keeper of the place, would be rather a
catch than otherwise; and if the same terms Well, ma'am, annual compliment.  If the same annual compliment would be
acceptable there, why, I see nothing to part us, unless you do. Why, of course it is, If it was not, ma'am, you don't
suppose that I should offer it to a lady who has moved in the society you
have moved in.  Not that _I_ care for such society, you know!  But _you_
do. You'll have your own private apartments, and you'll have your coals and
your candles, and all the rest of it, and you'll have your maid to attend
upon you, and you'll have your light porter to protect you, and you'll be
what I take the liberty of considering precious comfortable, Ladies and gentlemen, I am Josiah Bounderby of Coketown.  Since you have
done my wife and myself the honour of drinking our healths and happiness,
I suppose I must acknowledge the same; though, as you all know me, and
know what I am, and what my extraction was, you won't expect a speech
from a man who, when he sees a Post, says and when he
sees a Pump, says and is not to be got to call a Post a
Pump, or a Pump a Post, or either of them a Toothpick.  If you want a
speech this morning, my friend and father-in-law, Tom Gradgrind, is a
Member of Parliament, and you know where to get it.  I am not your man.
However, if I feel a little independent when I look around this table
to-day, and reflect how little I thought of marrying Tom Gradgrind's
daughter when I was a ragged street-boy, who never washed his face unless
it was at a pump, and that not oftener than once a fortnight, I hope I
may be excused.  So, I hope you like my feeling independent; if you
don't, I can't help it.  I _do_ feel independent.  Now I have mentioned,
and you have mentioned, that I am this day married to Tom Gradgrind's
daughter.  I am very glad to be so.  It has long been my wish to be so.
I have watched her bringing-up, and I believe she is worthy of me.  At
the same time   not to deceive you   I believe I am worthy of her.  So, I
thank you, on both our parts, for the good-will you have shown towards
us; and the best wish I can give the unmarried part of the present
company, is this: I hope every bachelor may find as good a wife as I have
found.  And I hope every spinster may find as good a husband as my wife
has found. My name, sir, is Josiah Bounderby, of Coketown. Coketown, sir, is not the
kind of place you have been accustomed to.  Therefore, if you will allow
me   or whether you will or not, for I am a plain man   I'll tell you
something about it before we go any further. Don't be too sure of that, I don't promise it.  First
of all, you see our smoke.  That's meat and drink to us.  It's the
healthiest thing in the world in all respects, and particularly for the
lungs.  If you are one of those who want us to consume it, I differ from
you.  We are not going to wear the bottoms of our boilers out any faster
than we wear 'em out now, for all the humbugging sentiment in Great
Britain and Ireland. I am glad to hear it, Now, you have heard a lot of
talk about the work in our mills, no doubt.  You have?  Very good.  I'll
state the fact of it to you.  It's the pleasantest work there is, and
it's the lightest work there is, and it's the best-paid work there is.
More than that, we couldn't improve the mills themselves, unless we laid
down Turkey carpets on the floors.  Which we're not a-going to do. Lastly, as to our Hands.  There's not a Hand in this
town, sir, man, woman, or child, but has one ultimate object in life.
That object is, to be fed on turtle soup and venison with a gold spoon.
Now, they're not a-going   none of 'em   ever to be fed on turtle soup and
venison with a gold spoon.  And now you know the place. Why, you see, it suits my disposition to have a
full understanding with a man, particularly with a public man, when I
make his acquaintance.  I have only one thing more to say to you, Mr.
Harthouse, before assuring you of the pleasure with which I shall
respond, to the utmost of my poor ability, to my friend Tom Gradgrind's
letter of introduction.  You are a man of family.  Don't you deceive
yourself by supposing for a moment that I am a man of family.  I am a bit
of dirty riff-raff, and a genuine scrap of tag, rag, and bobtail. So now, we may shake hands on equal terms.  I say,
equal terms, because although I know what I am, and the exact depth of
the gutter I have lifted myself out of, better than any man does, I am as
proud as you are.  I am just as proud as you are.  Having now asserted my
independence in a proper manner, I may come to how do you find yourself,
and I hope you're pretty well. Perhaps you know, or perhaps you don't know, I married Tom
Gradgrind's daughter.  If you have nothing better to do than to walk up
town with me, I shall be glad to introduce you to Tom Gradgrind's
daughter. This, sir, is my wife, Mrs. Bounderby: Tom Gradgrind's
eldest daughter.  Loo, Mr. James Harthouse.  Mr. Harthouse has joined
your father's muster-roll.  If he is not Tom Gradgrind's colleague before
long, I believe we shall at least hear of him in connexion with one of
our neighbouring towns.  You observe, Mr. Harthouse, that my wife is my
junior.  I don't know what she saw in me to marry me, but she saw
something in me, I suppose, or she wouldn't have married me.  She has
lots of expensive knowledge, sir, political and otherwise.  If you want
to cram for anything, I should be troubled to recommend you to a better
adviser than Loo Bounderby. Ay, ay? This whelp is the only creature she
cares for.  So, so! When I was your age, young Tom, I was punctual, or I
got no dinner! Never mind that now, WELL, Stephen, what's this I
hear?  What have these pests of the earth been doing to _you_?  Come in,
and speak up. This is the man I was telling you about, Harthouse, Now, speak up! Why, I have told you, Speak up like a man, since
you are a man, and tell us about yourself and this Combination. Now, look here, Harthouse, here's a specimen of 'em.  When
this man was here once before, I warned this man against the mischievous
strangers who are always about   and who ought to be hanged wherever they
are found   and I told this man that he was going in the wrong direction.
Now, would you believe it, that although they have put this mark upon
him, he is such a slave to them still, that he's afraid to open his lips
about them? You said!  Ah!  _I_ know what you said; more than that, I know what you
mean, you see.  Not always the same thing, by the Lord Harry!  Quite
different things.  You had better tell us at once, that that fellow
Slackbridge is not in the town, stirring up the people to mutiny; and
that he is not a regular qualified leader of the people: that is, a most
confounded scoundrel.  You had better tell us so at once; you can't
deceive me.  You want to tell us so.  Why don't you? Now, you'll think this pretty well, Harthouse, You'll think this tolerably strong.  You'll say, upon my soul this is a
tidy specimen of what my friends have to deal with; but this is nothing,
sir!  You shall hear me ask this man a question.  Pray, Mr.
Blackpool may I take the liberty of asking
you how it happens that you refused to be in this Combination? Ah! how it happens. Not to me, you know, As for me, any consideration for me has had just nothing at all to do
with it, If only
Josiah Bounderby of Coketown had been in question, you would have joined
and made no bones about it? Though he knows, that there
are a set of rascals and rebels whom transportation is too good for!
Now, Mr. Harthouse, you have been knocking about in the world some time.
Did you ever meet with anything like that man out of this blessed
country? In short, it's because they are so full of virtues
that they have turned you adrift.  Go through with it while you are about
it.  Out with it. Now, my friend, if you will favour me with your attention for half a
minute, I should like to have a word or two with you.  You said just now,
that you had nothing to tell us about this business.  You are quite sure
of that before we go any further. Here's a gentleman from London present, a Parliament gentleman.  I
should like him to hear a short bit of dialogue between you and me,
instead of taking the substance of it   for I know precious well,
beforehand, what it will be; nobody knows better than I do, take
notice!   instead of receiving it on trust from my mouth. Now, what do you complain of? What, do you people, in a
general way, complain of? Of course, Now perhaps you'll let the gentleman
know, how you would set this muddle (as you're so fond of calling it) to
rights. I'll tell you something towards it, at any rate, We will make an example of half a dozen Slackbridges.  We'll
indict the blackguards for felony, and get 'em shipped off to penal
settlements. Don't tell me we won't, man, because we will, I tell you! Just stop a moment, I told you, the last time you were here with a grievance, that you had
better turn about and come out of that.  And I also told you, if you
remember, that I was up to the gold spoon look-out. Now it's clear to me, that you are one of those
chaps who have always got a grievance.  And you go about, sowing it and
raising crops.  That's the business of _your_ life, my friend. You are such a waspish, raspish, ill-conditioned chap, you see, that even your own Union, the men who know you best, will
have nothing to do with you.  I never thought those fellows could be
right in anything; but I tell you what!  I so far go along with them for
a novelty, that _I_'ll have nothing to do with you either. You can finish off what you're at, and then go elsewhere. What I know, I know; and what you know, you know.  I have
no more to say about it. Harthouse, you have a couple of horses down here.  Bring half a dozen
more if you like, and we'll find room for 'em.  There's stabling in this
place for a dozen horses; and unless Nickits is belied, he kept the full
number.  A round dozen of 'em, sir.  When that man was a boy, he went to
Westminster School.  Went to Westminster School as a King's Scholar, when
I was principally living on garbage, and sleeping in market baskets.
Why, if I wanted to keep a dozen horses   which I don't, for one's enough
for me   I couldn't bear to see 'em in their stalls here, and think what my
own lodging used to be.  I couldn't look at 'em, sir, and not order 'em
out.  Yet so things come round.  You see this place; you know what sort
of a place it is; you are aware that there's not a completer place of its
size in this kingdom or elsewhere   I don't care where   and here, got into
the middle of it, like a maggot into a nut, is Josiah Bounderby.  While
Nickits (as a man came into my office, and told me yesterday), Nickits,
who used to act in Latin, in the Westminster School plays, with the
chief-justices and nobility of this country applauding him till they were
black in the face, is drivelling at this minute   drivelling, sir!   in a
fifth floor, up a narrow dark back street in Antwerp. Harthouse! Have you heard? Then you _haven't_ heard! The Bank's robbed! Robbed last night, sir.  Robbed in an extraordinary manner.  Robbed with
a false key. Why, no; not of very much.  But it
might have been. Oh! as a sum   if you stick to a sum   of not more than a hundred and fifty
pound, But it's not the sum; it's the
fact.  It's the fact of the Bank being robbed, that's the important
circumstance.  I am surprised you don't see it. Thank'ee, But I
tell you what.  It might have been twenty thousand pound. Suppose it might!  By the Lord, you _may_ suppose so.  By George! It
might have been twice twenty.  There's no knowing what it would have
been, or wouldn't have been, as it was, but for the fellows' being
disturbed. Here's Tom Gradgrind's daughter knows pretty well what it might have
been, if you don't, Dropped, sir, as if she was
shot when I told her!  Never knew her do such a thing before.  Does her
credit, under the circumstances, in my opinion! Why, I am going to tell you, If you hadn't been so mighty particular about the sum,
I should have begun to tell you before.  You know this lady (for she _is_
a lady), Mrs. Sparsit? Come! let's have
none of _your_ interruptions.  It's enough to be robbed while you're
snoring because you're too comfortable, without being put right with
_your_ four seven ones.  I didn't snore, myself, when I was your age, let
me tell you.  I hadn't victuals enough to snore.  And I didn't four seven
one.  Not if I knew it. A hundred and fifty odd pound, That sum of
money, young Tom locked in his safe, not a very strong safe, but that's
no matter now.  Everything was left, all right.  Some time in the night,
while this young fellow snored   Mrs. Sparsit, ma'am, you say you have
heard him snore? Well! while he was snoring, _or_
choking, _or_ Dutch-clocking, _or_ something _or_ other   being asleep   some
fellows, somehow, whether previously concealed in the house or not
remains to be seen, got to young Tom's safe, forced it, and abstracted
the contents.  Being then disturbed, they made off; letting themselves
out at the main door, and double-locking it again (it was double-locked,
and the key under Mrs. Sparsit's pillow) with a false key, which was
picked up in the street near the Bank, about twelve o'clock to-day.  No
alarm takes place, till this chap, Bitzer, turns out this morning, and
begins to open and prepare the offices for business.  Then, looking at
Tom's safe, he sees the door ajar, and finds the lock forced, and the
money gone. He has been helping the police, and stays behind at
the Bank.  I wish these fellows had tried to rob me when I was at his
time of life.  They would have been out of pocket if they had invested
eighteenpence in the job; I can tell 'em that. Suspected?  I should think there was somebody suspected.  Egod! Josiah Bounderby of Coketown is not to be plundered and nobody
suspected.  No, thank you! Well, I'll tell you.  It's not to be mentioned everywhere; it's not to be
mentioned anywhere: in order that the scoundrels concerned (there's a
gang of 'em) may be thrown off their guard.  So take this in confidence.
Now wait a bit. What should you
say to; to a Hand being in it? Say Pool instead of Pot, sir, and that's the man. O yes!  I know! I
know!  I am used to that.  I know all about it.  They are the finest
people in the world, these fellows are.  They have got the gift of the
gab, they have.  They only want to have their rights explained to them,
they do.  But I tell you what.  Show me a dissatisfied Hand, and I'll
show you a man that's fit for anything bad, I don't care what it is. But I am acquainted with these chaps, I can read 'em
off, like books.  Mrs. Sparsit, ma'am, I appeal to you.  What warning did
I give that fellow, the first time he set foot in the house, when the
express object of his visit was to know how he could knock Religion over,
and floor the Established Church?  Mrs. Sparsit, in point of high
connexions, you are on a level with the aristocracy,   did I say, or did I
not say, to that fellow, ? When he shocked you, ma'am, when he shocked your
feelings? You can recall for yourself, Harthouse, what I said to him when you saw
him.  I didn't mince the matter with him.  I am never mealy with 'em.  I
KNOW 'em.  Very well, sir.  Three days after that, he bolted.  Went off,
nobody knows where: as my mother did in my infancy   only with this
difference, that he is a worse subject than my mother, if possible.  What
did he do before he went?  What do you say; to his being seen   night after
night   watching the Bank?   to his lurking about there   after dark?   To its
striking Mrs. Sparsit   that he could be lurking for no good   To her calling
Bitzer's attention to him, and their both taking notice of him   And to its
appearing on inquiry to-day   that he was also noticed by the neighbours? I think so, sir, I think so.  But
there are more of 'em in it.  There's an old woman.  One never hears of
these things till the mischief's done; all sorts of defects are found out
in the stable door after the horse is stolen; there's an old woman turns
up now.  An old woman who seems to have been flying into town on a
broomstick, every now and then.  _She_ watches the place a whole day
before this fellow begins, and on the night when you saw him, she steals
away with him and holds a council with him   I suppose, to make her report
on going off duty, and be damned to her. This is not all of 'em, even as we already know 'em, But I have said enough for the
present.  You'll have the goodness to keep it quiet, and mention it to no
one.  It may take time, but we shall have 'em.  It's policy to give 'em
line enough, and there's no objection to that. For the present, Loo Bounderby, here's Mrs. Sparsit
to look after.  Mrs. Sparsit's nerves have been acted upon by this
business, and she'll stay here a day or two.  So make her comfortable. I haven't played backgammon, ma'am, since that time. What's the matter, ma'am? you
don't see a Fire, do you? What have you got to do with the dew, ma'am? She never takes cold, Why, I have got out of the habit of taking it
now, ma'am, Your health, ma'am! If I waited to be taken care of by my wife, ma'am, I believe
you know pretty well I should wait till Doomsday, so I'll trouble _you_
to take charge of the teapot. There!  Stop where you are, ma'am, stop where you
are!  Mrs. Bounderby will be very glad to be relieved of the trouble, I
believe. You may set your mind at rest, ma'am.   You can take it very quietly,
can't you, Loo? Why should it be of any importance to any one, Mrs. Sparsit, ma'am? You attach too
much importance to these things, ma'am.  By George, you'll be corrupted
in some of your notions here.  You are old-fashioned, ma'am.  You are
behind Tom Gradgrind's children's time. Offence! Do you suppose if there was any offence
given me, I shouldn't name it, and request to have it corrected?  I am a
straightforward man, I believe.  I don't go beating about for
side-winds. Have? Nothing.  Otherwise, don't you, Loo
Bounderby, know thoroughly well that I, Josiah Bounderby of Coketown,
would have it? I tell you what, ma'am; you shall come down here
of a Saturday, while the fine weather lasts, and stay till Monday. Why, ma'am, no; not yet.  Under the circumstances, I didn't expect it
yet.  Rome wasn't built in a day, ma'am. Nor yet in a week, ma'am. In a similar manner, ma'am, I can wait, you know.  If
Romulus and Remus could wait, Josiah Bounderby can wait.  They were
better off in their youth than I was, however.  They had a she-wolf for a
nurse; I had only a she-wolf for a grandmother.  She didn't give any
milk, ma'am; she gave bruises.  She was a regular Alderney at that. No, ma'am, I have not heard anything more about
it.  It's in hand, though; and young Tom, who rather sticks to business
at present   something new for him; he hadn't the schooling _I_ had   is
helping.  My injunction is, Keep it quiet, and let it seem to blow over.
Do what you like under the rose, but don't give a sign of what you're
about; or half a hundred of 'em will combine together and get this fellow
who has bolted, out of reach for good.  Keep it quiet, and the thieves
will grow in confidence by little and little, and we shall have 'em. The old woman I mentioned, ma'am, is not laid hold of; but, she
may take her oath she will be, if that is any satisfaction to her
villainous old mind.  In the mean time, ma'am, I am of opinion, if you
ask me my opinion, that the less she is talked about, the better. But you'll go down to-morrow, ma'am, all the same.
You'll go down just as if I was there.  It will make no difference to
you. Well, ma'am, then you must get on in my absence as well as you can, Why, when I invite you to my house, ma'am, I should hope you want no other invitation. What do you mean, ma'am? Now, Tom Gradgrind, here's a lady here   Mrs. Sparsit   you know Mrs.
Sparsit   who has something to say to you that will strike you dumb. Missed your letter, sir! The present time is no
time for letters.  No man shall talk to Josiah Bounderby of Coketown
about letters, with his mind in the state it's in now. Tom Gradgrind, I speak of a very special
messenger that has come to me, in reference to Louisa.  Mrs. Sparsit,
ma'am, stand forward! If you can't get it out, ma'am, leave _me_ to get it
out.  This is not a time for a lady, however highly connected, to be
totally inaudible, and seemingly swallowing marbles.  Tom Gradgrind, Mrs.
Sparsit latterly found herself, by accident, in a situation to overhear a
conversation out of doors between your daughter and your precious
gentleman-friend, Mr. James Harthouse. Ah!  Indeed! And in that conversation You do?  Perhaps, you know where your daughter is at
the present time! Here? Now, ma'am!  We shall be happy to hear any little apology you may think
proper to offer, for going about the country at express pace, with no
other luggage than a Cock-and-a-Bull, ma'am! Well, ma'am, without making any observation to you
that may not be made with propriety to a woman of good family, what I
have got to add to that, is that there is something else in which it
appears to me you may take refuge, namely, a coach.  And the coach in
which we came here being at the door, you'll allow me to hand you down to
it, and pack you home to the Bank: where the best course for you to
pursue, will be to put your feet into the hottest water you can bear, and
take a glass of scalding rum and butter after you get into bed. Now, as you showed me in your face, Tom Gradgrind, that you wanted to
speak to me, here I am.  But, I am not in a very agreeable
state, I tell you plainly: not relishing this business, even as it is,
and not considering that I am at any time as dutifully and submissively
treated by your daughter, as Josiah Bounderby of Coketown ought to be
treated by his wife.  You have your opinion, I dare say; and I have mine,
I know.  If you mean to say anything to me to-night, that goes against
this candid remark, you had better let it alone. Now, you'll excuse me, but I don't want to be too
dear.  That, to start with.  When I begin to be dear to a man, I
generally find that his intention is to come over me.  I am not speaking
to you politely; but, as you are aware, I am _not_ polite.  If you like
politeness, you know where to get it.  You have your gentleman-friends,
you know, and they'll serve you with as much of the article as you want.
I don't keep it myself. I thought you couldn't make 'em, I never mentioned his name! Who do you mean by We? There you hit it, There I agree with you.  You
have found it out at last, have you?  Education!  I'll tell you what
education is   To be tumbled out of doors, neck and crop, and put upon the
shortest allowance of everything except blows.  That's what _I_ call
education. I don't see it at all, sir, I don't understand you, yet, and therefore I won't make any promises. You'd like to keep her here for a time? I gather from all this, Tom Gradgrind, that you are of opinion that there's what
people call some incompatibility between Loo Bounderby and myself. Now, look you here, Tom Gradgrind, You have said your say; I am going to say mine.  I am a
Coketown man.  I am Josiah Bounderby of Coketown.  I know the bricks of
this town, and I know the works of this town, and I know the chimneys of
this town, and I know the smoke of this town, and I know the Hands of
this town.  I know 'em all pretty well.  They're real.  When a man tells
me anything about imaginative qualities, I always tell that man, whoever
he is, that I know what he means.  He means turtle soup and venison, with
a gold spoon, and that he wants to be set up with a coach and six.
That's what your daughter wants.  Since you are of opinion that she ought
to have what she wants, I recommend you to provide it for her.  Because,
Tom Gradgrind, she will never have it from me. Just wait a bit, you have said your say, I
believe.  I heard you out; hear me out, if you please.  Don't make
yourself a spectacle of unfairness as well as inconsistency, because,
although I am sorry to see Tom Gradgrind reduced to his present position,
I should be doubly sorry to see him brought so low as that.  Now, there's
an incompatibility of some sort or another, I am given to understand by
you, between your daughter and me.  I'll give _you_ to understand, in
reply to that, that there unquestionably is an incompatibility of the
first magnitude   to be summed up in this   that your daughter don't properly
know her husband's merits, and is not impressed with such a sense as
would become her, by George! of the honour of his alliance.  That's plain
speaking, I hope. Is it? I am glad to hear you say so.  Because when
Tom Gradgrind, with his new lights, tells me that what I say is
unreasonable, I am convinced at once it must be devilish sensible.  With
your permission I am going on.  You know my origin; and you know that for
a good many years of my life I didn't want a shoeing-horn, in consequence
of not having a shoe.  Yet you may believe or not, as you think proper,
that there are ladies   born ladies   belonging to families   Families!   who
next to worship the ground I walk on. Whereas your daughter, is far from being a born
lady.  That you know, yourself.  Not that I care a pinch of candle-snuff
about such things, for you are very well aware I don't; but that such is
the fact, and you, Tom Gradgrind, can't change it.  Why do I say this? Hear me out, and refrain from cutting in till your
turn comes round.  I say this, because highly connected females have been
astonished to see the way in which your daughter has conducted herself,
and to witness her insensibility.  They have wondered how I have suffered
it.  And I wonder myself now, and I won't suffer it. On the contrary, Tom Gradgrind, the more we say to-night, the better, I
think.  That is, till I have said all I
mean to say, and then I don't care how soon we stop.  I come to a
question that may shorten the business.  What do you mean by the proposal
you made just now? By your visiting proposition, To a softening down of your ideas of the incompatibility? What made you think of this? Come! I don't want to be told about that.  I know what I took
her for, as well as you do.  Never you mind what I took her for; that's
my look out. I think differently, I am going to finish this
business according to my own opinions.  Now, I don't want to make a
quarrel of it with you, Tom Gradgrind.  To tell you the truth, I don't
think it would be worthy of my reputation to quarrel on such a subject.
As to your gentleman-friend, he may take himself off, wherever he likes
best.  If he falls in my way, I shall tell him my mind; if he don't fall
in my way, I shan't, for it won't be worth my while to do it.  As to your
daughter, whom I made Loo Bounderby, and might have done better by
leaving Loo Gradgrind, if she don't come home to-morrow, by twelve
o'clock at noon, I shall understand that she prefers to stay away, and I
shall send her wearing apparel and so forth over here, and you'll take
charge of her for the future.  What I shall say to people in general, of
the incompatibility that led to my so laying down the law, will be this.
I am Josiah Bounderby, and I had my bringing-up; she's the daughter of
Tom Gradgrind, and she had her bringing-up; and the two horses wouldn't
pull together.  I am pretty well known to be rather an uncommon man, I
believe; and most people will understand fast enough that it must be a
woman rather out of the common, also, who, in the long run, would come up
to my mark. I always come to a decision, and
whatever I do, I do at once.  I should be surprised at Tom Gradgrind's
addressing such a remark to Josiah Bounderby of Coketown, knowing what he
knows of him, if I could be surprised by anything Tom Gradgrind did,
after his making himself a party to sentimental humbug.  I have given you
my decision, and I have got no more to say.  Good night! Mrs. Bounderby, I don't
disturb you, I hope.  This is an unseasonable hour, but here is a young
woman who has been making statements which render my visit necessary.
Tom Gradgrind, as your son, young Tom, refuses for some obstinate reason
or other to say anything at all about those statements, good or bad, I am
obliged to confront her with your daughter. Why couldn't you say so, young Tom? Thank you, ma'am, Much flattered and obliged. Oh, certainly! If you put the question whether your
ridiculous and improbable account was true or not, I am bound to say it's
confirmed. Come! you know what you have engaged to do.  You had better
give your mind to that; not this. So far, that's true enough, But I have known you people before to-day,
you'll observe, and I know you never die for want of talking.  Now, I
recommend you not so much to mind talking just now, as doing.  You have
undertaken to do something; all I remark upon that at present is, do it! Then, I'll tell you something.  You are not aware perhaps, that you yourself have been looked after now and then, not
being considered quite free from suspicion in this business, on account
of most people being judged according to the company they keep.  The
post-office hasn't been forgotten either.  What I'll tell you is, that no
letter to Stephen Blackpool has ever got into it.  Therefore, what has
become of yours, I leave you to guess.  Perhaps you're mistaken, and
never wrote any. Oh, by George! he
changes his name, does he!  That's rather unlucky, too, for such an
immaculate chap.  It's considered a little suspicious in Courts of
Justice, I believe, when an Innocent happens to have many names. All the surer, I suppose, for your refusing to
tell where he is?  Eh? Notwithstanding which, if he can be laid hold of
any sooner, he shall have an earlier opportunity of clearing himself.  As
to you, I have nothing against you; what you came and told me turns out
to be true, and I have given you the means of proving it to be true, and
there's an end of it.  I wish you good night all!  I must be off to look
a little further into this. Why, what's the matter now! Mrs. Sparsit, ma'am? Why, what do you mean by this? I ask you, what do you mean by this, Mrs. Sparsit,
ma'am? Why don't you mind your own business, ma'am? How
dare you go and poke your officious nose into my family affairs? What did you let her bring you for?  Couldn't you knock her cap off, or
her tooth out, or scratch her, or do something or other to her? I don't exactly know, how I come to be favoured
with the attendance of the present company, but I don't inquire.  When
they're quite satisfied, perhaps they'll be so good as to disperse;
whether they're satisfied or not, perhaps they'll be so good as to
disperse.  I'm not bound to deliver a lecture on my family affairs, I
have not undertaken to do it, and I'm not a going to do it.  Therefore
those who expect any explanation whatever upon that branch of the
subject, will be disappointed   particularly Tom Gradgrind, and he can't
know it too soon.  In reference to the Bank robbery, there has been a
mistake made, concerning my mother.  If there hadn't been
over-officiousness it wouldn't have been made, and I hate
over-officiousness at all times, whether or no. Good evening! What's the matter now, ma'am? Bite your nose off, ma'am? _Your_ nose! Well, ma'am? What are you staring at? Yes, ma'am. Now, I'll tell you what, ma'am, I am not come here to
be bullied.  A female may be highly connected, but she can't be permitted
to bother and badger a man in my position, and I am not going to put up
with it. Allow me to open the door, ma'am. You had better allow me, ma'am, I have been thinking it over, you see, since the late affairs have
happened, ma'am, It appears to me, ma'am, I say, that a different sort of establishment
altogether would bring out a lady of _your_ powers.  Such an
establishment as your relation, Lady Scadgers's, now.  Don't you think
you might find some affairs there, ma'am, to interfere with? Then suppose you try, ma'am, You can take your own time for
going, ma'am; but perhaps in the meanwhile, it will be more agreeable to
a lady of your powers of mind, to eat her meals by herself, and not to be
intruded upon.  I really ought to apologise to you   being only Josiah
Bounderby of Coketown   for having stood in your light so long. because I can take the opportunity of
saying a word to you, before you go.  Mrs. Sparsit, ma'am, I rather think
you are cramped here, do you know?  It appears to me, that, under my
humble roof, there's hardly opening enough for a lady of your genius in
other people's affairs. and it appears to my poor judgment 

_group DIALOGUES
Yes, sir! No, sir! Yes, sir! No, sir! Good-bye, Cecilia! Good-bye, Sissy! God bless you, dear! Yes, 

_unknowable DIALOGUES
elucidate the diverting accomplishments of his highly trained performing
dog Merrylegs. his astounding feat of throwing
seventy-five hundred-weight in rapid succession backhanded over his head,
thus forming a fountain of solid iron in mid-air, a feat never before
attempted in this or any other country, and which having elicited such
rapturous plaudits from enthusiastic throngs it cannot be withdrawn. enliven the varied performances at frequent
intervals with his chaste Shaksperean quips and retorts. the highly novel and laughable
hippo-comedietta of The Tailor's Journey to Brentford. Jem, there's a good opening among the hard Fact fellows, and
they want men.  I wonder you don't go in for statistics. If you want to bring in,
for any place, a handsome dog who can make you a devilish good speech,
look after my brother Jem, for he's your man. Good! Hear, hear, hear! Hurrah! Be sure you're right, Slackbridge! Put him up! Let's hear him! No! Slackbridge, y'or over
hetter in't; y'or a goen too fast! Lower away! But he's hurt very bad, Where's doctor?  He's hurt so very bad, sir, that we donno
how to get him up. Sissy's father's dog! 

Louisa Bounderby DIALOGUES
Wanted to see what it was like, Yes, father. I brought _him_, father, I asked him to come. I was tired, father.  I have been tired a long time, I don't know of what   of everything, I think. We were peeping at the circus, and father caught us. That's the reason! You can take one, Mr. Bounderby, You may cut the piece out with your penknife if you like, Tom.  I
wouldn't cry! Tom, I
wonder You don't hate Sissy, Tom? No, she does not, Tom, I am sure! Not me, I hope, Tom? Indeed, Tom?  Do you really and truly say so? Because, Tom, as I get older, and nearer growing up, I often sit wondering
here, and think how unfortunate it is for me that I can't reconcile you
to home better than I am able to do.  I don't know what other girls know.
I can't play to you, or sing to you.  I can't talk to you so as to
lighten your mind, for I never see any amusing sights or read any amusing
books that it would be a pleasure or a relief to you to talk about, when
you are tired. It's a great pity, it's a great pity, Tom.  It's very
unfortunate for both of us. You are a dear brother, Tom; and while you think I can do such things, I
don't so much mind knowing better.  Though I do know better, Tom, and am
very sorry for it. Your revenge, Tom? But don't disappoint yourself beforehand, Tom.  Mr. Bounderby thinks as
father thinks, and is a great deal rougher, and not half so kind. What is your great mode of smoothing and managing, Tom?  Is it a
secret? No, Tom.  I am looking at the fire. Tom, do you look forward with any satisfaction to this change to Mr.
Bounderby's? There is one thing to be said of it, it will be getting away from home.  Yes. Yes, Tom. I don't see anything in it, Tom, particularly.  But since I have been
looking at it, I have been wondering about you and me, grown up. I have such unmanageable thoughts, that they
_will_ wonder. I was encouraged by nothing, mother, but by looking at the red sparks
dropping out of the fire, and whitening and dying.  It made me think,
after all, how short my life would be, and how little I could hope to do
in it. Do you think so? You might not be the better for it, Sissy. I don't know that. You are more useful to my mother, and more pleasant with her than I can
ever be, You are pleasanter to yourself, than _I_ am
to _my_self. Mr. and Mrs. M'Choakumchild never make any mistakes themselves, I
suppose, Sissy? Tell me some of your mistakes. National, I think it must have been, You had better say, National, as he said so, What did you say? That was a great mistake of yours, Of course it was. Statistics, Nothing, Sissy? Did your father know so much himself, that he wished you to be well
taught too, Sissy? No one hears
us; and if any one did, I am sure no harm could be found in such an
innocent question. Your mother? Did your father love her? Yet he leaves you now, Sissy? Tell me more about him, I will never ask you again.
Where did you live? To make the people laugh? And you were his comfort through everything? And he liked them? And your father was always kind?  To the last? Why was he angry with the dog? Finish by telling me how your father left you, Sissy.  Now that I have
asked you so much, tell me the end.  The blame, if there is any blame, is
mine, not yours. I am asking Sissy a few questions, Tom, You have
no occasion to go away; but don't interrupt us for a moment, Tom dear. I'll come directly. Yes, father. Yes, father. Quite well, father. I am as
cheerful, father, as I usually am, or usually have been. Dear Tom, how long it is since
you have been to see me! No, Tom.  But he told me to-night that he wished to do so in the
morning. No. Indeed I am, Tom, though you do let such long intervals go by without
coming to see me. No, dear Tom, I won't forget. I hear you, father.  I am attending, I assure you. I cannot say that, father, until I hear it.  Prepared or unprepared, I
wish to hear it all from you.  I wish to hear you state it to me,
father. Father, do you think I love Mr. Bounderby? Father, do you ask
me to love Mr. Bounderby? Father, does Mr. Bounderby ask me to love him? Difficult to answer it, Yes or No, father? What would you advise me to use in its stead, father? What do you recommend, father, that I should
substitute for the term I used just now?  For the misplaced expression? Shall I marry him? No, father, I do not. There seems to be nothing there but languid and monotonous smoke.  Yet
when the night comes, Fire bursts out, father! Father, I have often thought that
life is very short. I speak of my own life, father. While it lasts, I would wish to do the little I can, and the little I am
fit for.  What does it matter? Mr. Bounderby, asks me to marry him.  The question I have to ask myself is, shall
I marry him?  That is so, father, is it not?  You have told me so,
father.  Have you not? Let it be so.  Since Mr. Bounderby likes to take me thus, I am satisfied
to accept his proposal.  Tell him, father, as soon as you please, that
this was my answer.  Repeat it, word for word, if you can, because I
should wish him to know what I said. None, father.  What does it matter! Father, what other proposal can have
been made to _me_?  Whom have I seen?  Where have I been?  What are my
heart's experiences? What do _I_ know, father, of tastes
and fancies; of aspirations and affections; of all that part of my nature
in which such light things might have been nourished?  What escape have I
had from problems that could be demonstrated, and realities that could be
grasped? Why, father, what a strange question to ask _me_!  The
baby-preference that even I have heard of as common among children, has
never had its innocent resting-place in my breast.  You have been so
careful of me, that I never had a child's heart.  You have trained me so
well, that I never dreamed a child's dream.  You have dealt so wisely
with me, father, from my cradle to this hour, that I never had a child's
belief or a child's fear. You respect Mr. Bounderby very much, It is
natural that you should. You are going to devote yourself, as I gather from what Mr. Bounderby
has said, to the service of your country.  You have made up your mind, to show the nation the way out of all its
difficulties. Have you none of your own? You are a singular politician, No, he has never been abroad yet, and
was educated here, at home.  Tom, love, I am telling Mr. Harthouse that
he never saw you abroad. I have come to speak to you, in consequence of what passed just now.  I
should like to be serviceable to you, if you will let me.  Is this your
wife? I remember, I recollect, now,
to have heard your domestic misfortunes spoken of, though I was not
attending to the particulars at the time.  It was not my meaning to ask a
question that would give pain to any one here.  If I should ask any other
question that may happen to have that result, give me credit, if you
please, for being in ignorance how to speak to you as I ought. He has told you what has passed between himself and my husband?  You
would be his first resource, I think. Did I understand, that, being rejected by one employer, he would
probably be rejected by all?  I thought he said as much? What shall I understand that you mean by a bad name? Then, by the prejudices of his own class, and by the prejudices of the
other, he is sacrificed alike?  Are the two so deeply separated in this
town, that there is no place whatever for an honest workman between
them? He fell into suspicion, with his fellow-weavers,
because   he had made a promise not to be one of them.  I think it must
have been to you that he made that promise.  Might I ask you why he made
it? What will you do? How will you travel? Rachael, will you tell him   for you know how, without offence   that this
is freely his, to help him on his way?  Will you entreat him to take it? Being so impulsive, I am waiting, for your further reference to my brother. Have you an interest in anything, Mr. Harthouse? Mr. Harthouse, I give you credit for
being interested in my brother. Yes. I know he does. Yes. I do not, think it likely. I do not think that likely, either. You will understand, Mr. Harthouse, you will understand that if I tell you what you press to know,
it is not by way of complaint or regret.  I would never complain of
anything, and what I have done I do not in the least regret. When I married, I found that my brother was even at that time heavily in
debt.  Heavily for him, I mean.  Heavily enough to oblige me to sell some
trinkets.  They were no sacrifice.  I sold them very willingly.  I
attached no value to them.  They, were quite worthless to me. Since then, I have given my brother, at various times, what money I
could spare: in short, what money I have had.  Confiding in you at all,
on the faith of the interest you profess for him, I will not do so by
halves.  Since you have been in the habit of visiting here, he has wanted
in one sum as much as a hundred pounds.  I have not been able to give it
to him.  I have felt uneasy for the consequences of his being so
involved, but I have kept these secrets until now, when I trust them to
your honour.  I have held no confidence with any one, because   you
anticipated my reason just now. You alarm me, Mr. Harthouse.  Pray let me know it. Have you so proved it to be a failing of mine, Tom? Thank you very much, sir, but pray do not
let My comfort be a consideration.  Anything will do for Me. Tom, have you anything to tell me?  If ever you loved me in your life,
and have anything concealed from every one besides, tell it to me. My dear brother: is
there nothing that you have to tell me?  Is there nothing you can tell me
if you will?  You can tell me nothing that will change me.  O Tom, tell
me the truth! As you lie here alone, my dear, in the melancholy night, so you must lie
somewhere one night, when even I, if I am living then, shall have left
you.  As I am here beside you, barefoot, unclothed, undistinguishable in
darkness, so must I lie through all the night of my decay, until I am
dust.  In the name of that time, Tom, tell me the truth now! You may be certain; that I will not reproach you.  You may be certain
that I will be compassionate and true to you.  You may be certain that I
will save you at whatever cost.  O Tom, have you nothing to tell me?
Whisper very softly.  Say only and I shall understand you! Not a word, Tom? You are tired, You have been so hurried and disturbed to-day.  Have any fresh
discoveries been made? Tom, have you said to any one that we made a visit to those people, and
that we saw those three together? Yes.  But I did not know then what was going to happen. Ought I to say, after what has happened, that I made that
visit?  Should I say so?  Must I say so? Tom, do you believe the man I gave the money to, is really implicated in
this crime? He seemed to me an honest man. Was he offended by what you said? You have nothing more to tell me? I wouldn't have you do that to-night, Tom, of all the nights in your
life; many and much happier as I hope they will be. Of course.  It is of no moment.  Why should it be of any importance to
me? What is the matter with you? What has
given you offence? I suppose no one ever had occasion to think you too diffident, or too
delicate, I have never made that
objection to you, either as a child or as a woman.  I don't understand
what you would have. You are incomprehensible this morning, Pray take no
further trouble to explain yourself.  I am not curious to know your
meaning.  What does it matter? I want to hear of you, mother; not of myself. Are you in pain, dear mother? Yes, mother.  I should think her like me.  But You were going to speak to me, mother. About what, mother?  Don't be troubled.  About what? I can hear you, mother. I can hear you, mother, when you have strength to go on. You recollect the man, Mr. Harthouse? His face, and his manner, and what he said? It has been very difficult to me to think ill of that man. No, certainly. How can I, when I know nothing of them, men or women? I almost feel as though it must be bad in me, to be so ready to agree with you, and to be
so lightened in my heart by what you say. Not here. Not here. Am I to say again, that I must be left to myself here? No! Father, I want to speak to you. Yes. Father, you have trained me from my cradle? I curse the hour in which I was born to such a destiny. How could you give me life, and take from me all the inappreciable
things that raise it from the state of conscious death?  Where are the
graces of my soul?  Where are the sentiments of my heart?  What have you
done, O father, what have you done, with the garden that should have
bloomed once, in this great wilderness here! If it had ever been here, its ashes alone would save me from the void in
which my whole life sinks.  I did not mean to say this; but, father, you
remember the last time we conversed in this room? What has risen to my lips now, would have risen to my lips then, if you
had given me a moment's help.  I don't reproach you, father.  What you
have never nurtured in me, you have never nurtured in yourself; but O! if
you had only done so long ago, or if you had only neglected me, what a
much better and much happier creature I should have been this day! Father, if you had known, when we were last together here, what even I
feared while I strove against it   as it has been my task from infancy to
strive against every natural prompting that has arisen in my heart; if
you had known that there lingered in my breast, sensibilities,
affections, weaknesses capable of being cherished into strength, defying
all the calculations ever made by man, and no more known to his
arithmetic than his Creator is,   would you have given me to the husband
whom I am now sure that I hate? Would you have doomed me, at any time, to the frost and blight that have
hardened and spoiled me?  Would you have robbed me   for no one's
enrichment   only for the greater desolation of this world   of the
immaterial part of my life, the spring and summer of my belief, my refuge
from what is sordid and bad in the real things around me, my school in
which I should have learned to be more humble and more trusting with
them, and to hope in my little sphere to make them better? Yet, father, if I had been stone blind; if I had groped my way by my
sense of touch, and had been free, while I knew the shapes and surfaces
of things, to exercise my fancy somewhat, in regard to them; I should
have been a million times wiser, happier, more loving, more contented,
more innocent and human in all good respects, than I am with the eyes I
have.  Now, hear what I have come to say. With a hunger and thirst upon me, father, which have never been for a
moment appeased; with an ardent impulse towards some region where rules,
and figures, and definitions were not quite absolute; I have grown up,
battling every inch of my way. Father, I always knew it.  In this strife I have almost repulsed and
crushed my better angel into a demon.  What I have learned has left me
doubting, misbelieving, despising, regretting, what I have not learned;
and my dismal resource has been to think that life would soon go by, and
that nothing in it could be worth the pain and trouble of a contest. And I so young.  In this condition, father   for I show you now, without
fear or favour, the ordinary deadened state of my mind as I know it   you
proposed my husband to me.  I took him.  I never made a pretence to him
or you that I loved him.  I knew, and, father, you knew, and he knew,
that I never did.  I was not wholly indifferent, for I had a hope of
being pleasant and useful to Tom.  I made that wild escape into something
visionary, and have slowly found out how wild it was.  But Tom had been
the subject of all the little tenderness of my life; perhaps he became so
because I knew so well how to pity him.  It matters little now, except as
it may dispose you to think more leniently of his errors. When I was irrevocably married, there rose up into rebellion against the
tie, the old strife, made fiercer by all those causes of disparity which
arise out of our two individual natures, and which no general laws shall
ever rule or state for me, father, until they shall be able to direct the
anatomist where to strike his knife into the secrets of my soul. I do not reproach you, father, I make no complaint.  I am here with
another object. I am coming to it.  Father, chance then threw into my way a new
acquaintance; a man such as I had had no experience of; used to the
world; light, polished, easy; making no pretences; avowing the low
estimate of everything, that I was half afraid to form in secret;
conveying to me almost immediately, though I don't know how or by what
degrees, that he understood me, and read my thoughts.  I could not find
that he was worse than I.  There seemed to be a near affinity between us.
I only wondered it should be worth his while, who cared for nothing else,
to care so much for me. I say nothing of his plea for claiming my confidence.  It matters very
little how he gained it.  Father, he did gain it.  What you know of the
story of my marriage, he soon knew, just as well. I have done no worse, I have not disgraced you.  But if you ask me
whether I have loved him, or do love him, I tell you plainly, father,
that it may be so.  I don't know. This night, my husband being away, he has been with me, declaring
himself my lover.  This minute he expects me, for I could release myself
of his presence by no other means.  I do not know that I am sorry, I do
not know that I am ashamed, I do not know that I am degraded in my own
esteem.  All that I know is, your philosophy and your teaching will not
save me.  Now, father, you have brought me to this.  Save me by some
other means! I shall die if you hold me!  Let me
fall upon the ground! When was I brought to this room? Who brought me here? Why do you believe so? What a beaming face you have, Jane! You
can tell father if you will. It was you who made my room so cheerful, and gave it this look of
welcome? I am well assured of what you say, father.  I know I have been your
favourite child.  I know you have intended to make me happy.  I have
never blamed you, and I never shall. Father, if any harmony has been
awakened in her young breast that was mute in mine until it turned to
discord, let her thank Heaven for it, and go upon her happier way, taking
it as her greatest blessing that she has avoided my way. Why should you stay with me?  My sister will miss you.  You are
everything to her. What? My father sent you to ask me. At least, what? Have I always hated you so much? First, Sissy, do you know what I am?  I am so proud and so hardened, so
confused and troubled, so resentful and unjust to every one and to
myself, that everything is stormy, dark, and wicked to me.  Does not that
repel you? I am so unhappy, and all that should have made me otherwise is so laid
waste, that if I had been bereft of sense to this hour, and instead of
being as learned as you think me, had to begin to acquire the simplest
truths, I could not want a guide to peace, contentment, honour, all the
good of which I am quite devoid, more abjectly than I do.  Does not that
repel you? Forgive me, pity me, help me!  Have compassion on my great need, and let
me lay this head of mine upon a loving heart! Who is it? What do they want, Sissy dear? Father, I cannot refuse to see them,
for a reason that will explain itself.  Shall they come in here? I have. I went to the house where Stephen Blackpool lodged, on the night of his
discharge from his work, and I saw you there.  He was there too; and an
old woman who did not speak, and whom I could scarcely see, stood in a
dark corner.  My brother was with me. I felt compassion for him, and I
wished to know what he was going to do, and wished to offer him
assistance. Yes; but he refused it, and would only take two pounds in gold. I am very, very sorry, Indeed, indeed, I pity him from my heart, and I hope
that he will clear himself. Rachael, you will not distrust me one day, when you know me better. Yes, dear, but I can't guess what can have ever taken
him there.  He never used to go there.  It was never in his way.  His way
was the same as mine, and not near it. I think I have believed it, father, though with great difficulty.  I do
not believe it now. Very honest. Yes, Stephen, I have heard you.  And your prayer is mine. He is here, Shall I bring him to you? I believe, father, he will not come back to town
to-night. Dear father, you have
three young children left.  They will be different, I will be different
yet, with Heaven's help. I fear so, father.  I know he had wanted money very much, and had spent
a great deal. I think it must have flashed upon him while he sat there, father.  For I
asked him to go there with me.  The visit did not originate with him. He took him out of the room.  I asked him afterwards, why he had done
so, and he made a plausible excuse; but since last night, father, and
when I remember the circumstances by its light, I am afraid I can imagine
too truly what passed between them. I fear, father, that he must have made some
representation to Stephen Blackpool   perhaps in my name, perhaps in his
own   which induced him to do in good faith and honesty, what he had never
done before, and to wait about the Bank those two or three nights before
he left the town. Sissy has effected it, father. My father will be here soon, Is my brother safe? O Tom, Tom, do we end so, after all my love! 

Mrs. Gradgrind DIALOGUES
I hadn't a shoe to my foot.  As to a stocking, I didn't know such a
thing by name.  I passed the day in a ditch, and the night in a pigsty.
That's the way I spent my tenth birthday.  Not that a ditch was new to
me, for I was born in a ditch. Enough to give a baby cold, Dear me, How can you, Louisa and Thomas!  I
wonder at you.  I declare you're enough to make one regret ever having
had a family at all.  I have a great mind to say I wish I hadn't.  _Then_
what would you have done, I should like to know? As if, with my head in its present throbbing state, you couldn't go and
look at the shells and minerals and things provided for you, instead of
circuses! You know, as well as I do, no young
people have circus masters, or keep circuses in cabinets, or attend
lectures about circuses.  What can you possibly want to know of circuses
then?  I am sure you have enough to do, if that's what you want.  With my
head in its present state, I couldn't remember the mere names of half the
facts you have got to attend to. Don't tell me that's the reason, because it can't be nothing of the
sort, Go and be somethingological directly. Oh, my poor health! The girl wanted to come
to the school, and Mr. Gradgrind wanted girls to come to the school, and
Louisa and Thomas both said that the girl wanted to come, and that Mr.
Gradgrind wanted girls to come, and how was it possible to contradict
them when such was the fact! Then I beg of you, Louisa, to do nothing of that description, for goodness'
sake, you inconsiderate girl, or I shall never hear the last of it from
your father.  And, Thomas, it is really shameful, with my poor head
continually wearing me out, that a boy brought up as you have been, and
whose education has cost what yours has, should be found encouraging his
sister to wonder, when he knows his father has expressly said that she is
not to do it. Louisa, don't tell me, in my state of
health; for unless you had been encouraged, it is morally and physically
impossible that you could have done it. Nonsense! Nonsense!
Don't stand there and tell me such stuff, Louisa, to my face, when you
know very well that if it was ever to reach your father's ears I should
never hear the last of it.  After all the trouble that has been taken
with you!  After the lectures you have attended, and the experiments you
have seen!  After I have heard you myself, when the whole of my right
side has been benumbed, going on with your master about combustion, and
calcination, and calorification, and I may say every kind of ation that
could drive a poor invalid distracted, to hear you talking in this absurd
way about sparks and ashes!  I wish, yes, I really _do_ wish that I had never had a
family, and then you would have known what it was to do without me! Good gracious bless me, how my poor head is vexed and worried by that
girl Jupe's so perseveringly asking, over and over again, about her
tiresome letters!  Upon my word and honour I seem to be fated, and
destined, and ordained, to live in the midst of things that I am never to
hear the last of.  It really is a most extraordinary circumstance that it
appears as if I never was to hear the last of anything! Oh! so you have settled it!  Well, I'm sure I
hope your health may be good, Louisa; for if your head begins to split as
soon as you are married, which was the case with mine, I cannot consider
that you are to be envied, though I have no doubt you think you are, as
all girls do.  However, I give you joy, my dear   and I hope you may now
turn all your ological studies to good account, I am sure I do!  I must
give you a kiss of congratulation, Louisa; but don't touch my right
shoulder, for there's something running down it all day long.  And now
you see, I shall be worrying myself, morning, noon, and
night, to know what I am to call him! Whatever I am to call him, Mr. Gradgrind, when he is married to Louisa!
I must call him something.  It's impossible, to be constantly addressing him
and never giving him a name.  I cannot call him Josiah, for the name is
insupportable to me.  You yourself wouldn't hear of Joe, you very well
know.  Am I to call my own son-in-law, Mister!  Not, I believe, unless
the time has arrived when, as an invalid, I am to be trampled upon by my
relations.  Then, what am I to call him! As to the wedding, all I ask, Louisa, is,   and I ask it with a fluttering
in my chest, which actually extends to the soles of my feet,   that it may
take place soon.  Otherwise, I know it is one of those subjects I shall
never hear the last of. It will do you good, sir.  It will warm your heart.  It is
the sort of thing you want, and ought to take, sir. Thank you, sir.  The same to you, and happiness also. Well, my dear, and I hope you are going on
satisfactorily to yourself.  It was all your father's doing.  He set his
heart upon it.  And he ought to know. You want to hear of me, my dear?  That's something new, I am sure, when
anybody wants to hear of me.  Not at all well, Louisa.  Very faint and
giddy. I think there's a pain somewhere in the room, but
I couldn't positively say that I have got it. You very seldom see your sister, She grows like
you.  I wish you would look at her.  Sissy, bring her here. Do you see the likeness, Louisa? Eh!  Yes, I always say so, And that reminds me.  I   I want to speak to you, my dear.
Sissy, my good girl, leave us alone a minute. Eh?  Yes, to be sure, my dear.  You know your father is almost always
away now, and therefore I must write to him about it. You must remember, my dear, that whenever I have said anything, on any
subject, I have never heard the last of it: and consequently, that I have
long left off saying anything. You learnt a great deal, Louisa, and so did your brother.  Ologies of
all kinds from morning to night.  If there is any Ology left, of any
description, that has not been worn to rags in this house, all I can say
is, I hope I shall never hear its name. But there is something   not an Ology at all   that your father has missed,
or forgotten, Louisa.  I don't know what it is.  I have often sat with
Sissy near me, and thought about it.  I shall never get its name now.
But your father may.  It makes me restless.  I want to write to him, to
find out for God's sake, what it is.  Give me a pen, give me a pen. 

Young Thomas DIALOGUES
What are you about, Loo? You'll rub
a hole in your face. I am sick of my life, Loo.  I, hate it altogether, and I hate everybody
except you, I hate to be obliged to call her Jupe.  And she hates me, She must, She must just hate and detest the whole set-out
of us.  They'll bother her head off, I think, before they have done with
her.  Already she's getting as pale as wax, and as heavy as   I am. As to me, I am a Donkey, that's what _I_ am.  I am as obstinate as one, I
am more stupid than one, I get as much pleasure as one, and I should like
to kick like one. No, Loo; I wouldn't hurt _you_.  I made an exception of you at first.  I
don't know what this   jolly old   Jaundiced Jail, would be without you. Why, of course I do.  What's the use of talking about it! Well, no more do I.  I am as bad as you in that respect; and I am a Mule
too, which you're not.  If father was determined to make me either a Prig
or a Mule, and I am not a Prig, why, it stands to reason, I must be a
Mule.  And so I am, Oh!  You, you are a girl, Loo, and a girl comes out of it
better than a boy does.  I don't miss anything in you.  You are the only
pleasure I have   you can brighten even this place   and you can always lead
me as you like. I wish I could collect all the Facts we hear so much about, and all the Figures, and all the people
who found them out: and I wish I could put a thousand barrels of
gunpowder under them, and blow them all up together!  However, when I go
to live with old Bounderby, I'll have my revenge. I mean, I'll enjoy myself a little, and go about and see something, and
hear something.  I'll recompense myself for the way in which I have been
brought up. Oh! I don't mind that.  I shall very well know how
to manage and smooth old Bounderby! Oh! if it is a secret, it's not far off.  It's you.  You are
his little pet, you are his favourite; he'll do anything for you.  When
he says to me what I don't like, I shall say to him, That'll bring him
about, or nothing will. Have you gone to sleep, Loo? You seem to find more to look at in it than ever I could find, Another of the advantages, I suppose, of being a girl. Why, there's one thing to be said of it, it will be getting away from home. Not but what I shall be very unwilling, both to leave you, Loo, and to
leave you here.  But I must go, you know, whether I like it or not; and I
had better go where I can take with me some advantage of your influence,
than where I should lose it altogether.  Don't you see? Except that it is a fire, it looks to me as stupid and blank
as everything else looks.  What do you see in it?  Not a circus? Wondering again! Oh! very well! Only father has brought old Bounderby
home, and I want you to come into the drawing-room.  Because if you come,
there's a good chance of old Bounderby's asking me to dinner; and if you
don't, there's none. I'll wait for you, to make sure. I say!  Look sharp for old Bounderby, Loo! Do look sharp for old Bounderby, Loo! He'll be off if you don't look sharp! Are you there, Loo? Why, I have been otherwise engaged, Loo, in the evenings; and in the
daytime old Bounderby has been keeping me at it rather.  But I touch him
up with you when he comes it too strong, and so we preserve an
understanding.  I say!  Has father said anything particular to you to-day
or yesterday, Loo? Ah!  That's what I mean, Do you know where he is
to-night? Then I'll tell you.  He's with old Bounderby.  They are having a regular
confab together up at the Bank.  Why at the Bank, do you think?  Well,
I'll tell you again.  To keep Mrs. Sparsit's ears as far off as possible,
I expect. You are very fond of me, an't you, Loo? Well, sister of mine, when you say that, you are near my
thoughts.  We might be so much oftener together   mightn't we?  Always
together, almost   mightn't we?  It would do me a great deal of good if you
were to make up your mind to I know what, Loo.  It would be a splendid
thing for me.  It would be uncommonly jolly! I say, Loo!  I thought I'd come, and just hint to you what was going on:
though I supposed you'd most likely guess, even if you didn't know.  I
can't stay, because I'm engaged to some fellows to-night.  You won't
forget how fond you are of me? That's a capital girl, Good-bye, Loo. What a game girl you are, to be such a first-rate sister, Loo! Old Bounderby's quite ready, Time's up.  Good-bye!  I shall
be on the look-out for you, when you come back.  I say, my dear Loo!
AN'T it uncommonly jolly now! When you were my age, you hadn't a wrong balance to get
right, and hadn't to dress afterwards. Well, then, Don't begin with me. No such luck, sir, I believe you! He don't seem to care about his
dress, and yet how capitally he does it.  What an easy
swell he is! Thank'ee, Thank'ee.  Well, Mr. Harthouse, I hope you have
had about a dose of old Bounderby to-night. You think so, don't you? What a comical brother-in-law old Bounderby is, I think you mean, Oh!  I don't care for old Bounderby, if you mean that.  I
have always called old Bounderby by the same name when I have talked
about him, and I have always thought of him in the same way.  I am not
going to begin to be polite now, about old Bounderby.  It would be rather
late in the day. His wife? My sister Loo?  O yes! My sister Loo? _She_ never cared for old Bounderby. Verb neuter, not to care.  Indicative mood, present tense.  First person
singular, I do not care; second person singular, thou dost not care;
third person singular, she does not care, But I _do_ mean it, Upon my honour!  Why, you won't tell
me, Mr. Harthouse, that you really suppose my sister Loo does care for
old Bounderby. You know our governor, Mr. Harthouse, and therefore, you
needn't be surprised that Loo married old Bounderby.  She never had a
lover, and the governor proposed old Bounderby, and she took him. Yes, but she wouldn't have been as dutiful, and it would not have come
off as easily, if it hadn't been for me. _I_ persuaded her, I
was stuck into old Bounderby's bank (where I never wanted to be), and I
knew I should get into scrapes there, if she put old Bounderby's pipe
out; so I told her my wishes, and she came into them.  She would do
anything for me.  It was very game of her, wasn't it? Not that it was altogether so important to her as it was to me, because my liberty and comfort, and perhaps my
getting on, depended on it; and she had no other lover, and staying at
home was like staying in jail   especially when I was gone.  It wasn't as
if she gave up another lover for old Bounderby; but still it was a good
thing in her. Oh, she's a regular girl.
A girl can get on anywhere.  She has settled down to the life, and _she_
don't mind.  It does just as well as another.  Besides, though Loo is a
girl, she's not a common sort of girl.  She can shut herself up within
herself, and think   as I have often known her sit and watch the fire   for
an hour at a stretch. Not so much of that as you may suppose, for our governor
had her crammed with all sorts of dry bones and sawdust.  It's his
system. His daughter?  Ah! and everybody else.  Why, he formed Me that way! He did, though, I mean to say, Mr.
Harthouse, that when I first left home and went to old Bounderby's, I was
as flat as a warming-pan, and knew no more about life, than any oyster
does. Upon my soul! I am serious; I am indeed! Oh!  I have picked up a little since.  I don't
deny that.  But I have done it myself; no thanks to the governor. My intelligent sister is about where she was.  She used to complain to
me that she had nothing to fall back upon, that girls usually fall back
upon; and I don't see how she is to have got over that since.  But _she_
don't mind, Girls
can always get on, somehow. Mother Sparsit! What! you have seen her already, have you? Mother Sparsit's feeling for Loo is more than admiration, I should
think, Say affection and devotion.  Mother Sparsit never set
her cap at Bounderby when he was a bachelor.  Oh no! Well! I must take my leave of you
though.  I say.  Yours is very good tobacco.  But it's too mild. It's   it's ridiculously mild, Where's the door!  Good
night! Just wait a moment, Loo!  Before we go, I should like to speak to him a
moment.  Something comes into my head.  If you'll step out on the stairs,
Blackpool, I'll mention it.  Never mind a light, man! It
don't want a light. I say! I think I can do you a good turn.  Don't ask me
what it is, because it may not come to anything.  But there's no harm in
my trying. That was our light porter at the Bank, who brought you the
message to-night.  I call him our light porter, because I belong to the
Bank too. Well! Now look here!  When are you off? Friday or Saturday, Now look here!  I am not sure that I
can do you the good turn I want to do you   that's my sister, you know, in
your room   but I may be able to, and if I should not be able to, there's
no harm done.  So I tell you what.  You'll know our light porter again? Very well, When you leave work of a night, between this
and your going away, just hang about the Bank an hour or so, will you?
Don't take on, as if you meant anything, if he should see you hanging
about there; because I shan't put him up to speak to you, unless I find I
can do you the service I want to do you.  In that case he'll have a note
or a message for you, but not else.  Now look here!  You are sure you
understand. Now look here! Be sure you don't make any mistake then,
and don't forget.  I shall tell my sister as we go home, what I have in
view, and she'll approve, I know.  Now look here!  You're all right, are
you?  You understand all about it?  Very well then.  Come along, Loo! Halloa! I didn't know you were here. Whose name? Oh!  You mean what girl's name? Not much of that, Mr. Harthouse, unless some fair creature with a
slashing fortune at her own disposal would take a fancy to me.  Or she
might be as ugly as she was rich, without any fear of losing me.  I'd
carve her name as often as she liked. Mercenary, Who is not mercenary?  Ask my sister. You know whether the cap fits you, Loo, If it does, you can wear it. At all events, Mr. Harthouse, you can't tell her that I
ever praised her for being mercenary.  I may have praised her for being
the contrary, and I should do it again, if I had as good reason.
However, never mind this now; it's not very interesting to you, and I am
sick of the subject. Oh!  Mr. Harthouse, I am hard up, and bothered
out of my life. You! You are the picture of independence.  Mr.
Harthouse, I am in a horrible mess.  You have no idea what a state I have
got myself into   what a state my sister might have got me out of, if she
would only have done it. Well, Mr. Harthouse, I know I have.  How else was I to get it?  Here's
old Bounderby always boasting that at my age he lived upon twopence a
month, or something of that sort.  Here's my father drawing what he calls
a line, and tying me down to it from a baby, neck and heels.  Here's my
mother who never has anything of her own, except her complaints.  What
_is_ a fellow to do for money, and where _am_ I to look for it, if not to
my sister? Not got it, Mr. Harthouse?  I don't say she has got it.  I may have
wanted more than she was likely to have got.  But then she ought to get
it.  She could get it.  It's of no use pretending to make a secret of
matters now, after what I have told you already; you know she didn't
marry old Bounderby for her own sake, or for his sake, but for my sake.
Then why doesn't she get what I want, out of him, for my sake?  She is
not obliged to say what she is going to do with it; she is sharp enough;
she could manage to coax it out of him, if she chose.  Then why doesn't
she choose, when I tell her of what consequence it is?  But no.  There
she sits in his company like a stone, instead of making herself agreeable
and getting it easily.  I don't know what you may call this, but I call
it unnatural conduct. For God's sake, don't talk about bankers! Mr. Harthouse, it's too
late; the money is of no use to me at present.  I should have had it
before to be of use to me.  But I am very much obliged to you; you're a
true friend. And I take your offer as a great kindness, As a great kindness, Mr. Harthouse. Thank you, I wish I had known you sooner, Mr. Harthouse. I will be, Mr. Harthouse. Certainly I will.  And my sister Loo shall say so. I
didn't mean to be cross, Loo, I know you are fond of me, and you know I am fond of you. I don't know what you mean, Loo.  You have been dreaming. I don't know what you mean, Loo! What is it you want to know? How can I say Yes, or how can I say No, when I don't know what you mean?
Loo, you are a brave, kind girl, worthy I begin to think of a better
brother than I am.  But I have nothing more to say.  Go to bed, go to
bed. Yes, I am quite tired out. Only those you have heard of, from   him. No.  Didn't you yourself particularly ask me to keep it quiet when you
asked me to go there with you? Nor I neither.  How could I? Good Heavens, Loo, you are not in the habit of
asking my advice.  Say what you like.  If you keep it to yourself, I
shall keep it to _my_self.  If you disclose it, there's an end of it. I don't know.  I don't see why he shouldn't be. Another person may seem to you dishonest, and yet not be so. In short, if you come to
that, perhaps I was so far from being altogether in his favour, that I
took him outside the door to tell him quietly, that I thought he might
consider himself very well off to get such a windfall as he had got from
my sister, and that I hoped he would make good use of it.  You remember
whether I took him out or not.  I say nothing against the man; he may be
a very good fellow, for anything I know; I hope he is. No, he took it pretty well; he was civil enough.  Where are you, Loo? Good night, my dear, good night. No.  What should I have?  You wouldn't have me tell you a lie! Thank you, my dear Loo.  I am so tired, that I am sure I wonder I don't
say anything to get to sleep.  Go to bed, go to bed. Thank'ee, Mrs. Sparsit, Oh, he's all right, He is shooting in Yorkshire, Sent Loo a basket half as big
as a church, yesterday. Crack, Why, _I_ expect to see him to-morrow, I have got an appointment with him to meet him in the evening at the
station here, and I am going to dine with him afterwards, I
believe.  He is not coming down to the country house for a week or so,
being due somewhere else.  At least, he says so; but I shouldn't wonder
if he was to stop here over Sunday, and stray that way. Well?  I'll try, if it isn't a long un. Oh!  If that's all, it wouldn't much matter, even if I
was to forget it, for Loo's not likely to think of you unless she sees
you. Well, Mrs. Sparsit, I must be off! Well!  I don't know, She was off somewhere at daybreak this morning.  She's always
full of mystery; I hate her.  So I do that white chap; he's always got
his blinking eyes upon a fellow. Where was I last night! Come!  I like that.  I was waiting
for you, Mr. Harthouse, till it came down as _I_ never saw it come down
before.  Where was I too!  Where were you, you mean. Detained! Two of us were detained.  I was detained
looking for you, till I lost every train but the mail.  It would have
been a pleasant job to go down by that on such a night, and have to walk
home through a pond.  I was obliged to sleep in town after all. Where?  Why, in my own bed at Bounderby's. How the deuce, could I see my sister when she
was fifteen miles off? It wouldn't be bad, to give the waiter
five shillings, and throw him. Or
a fellow of about thirteen or fourteen stone might be hired by the hour. like the Holy Office
and slow torture. I promised my sister I wouldn't. And
besides, she tells her own story so precious
well   and so full   that what business had I to take it out of her mouth! You're a pretty article, to come here with these precious imputations!  You ought to be
bundled out for not knowing how to behave yourself, and you would be by
rights. Good night, father! _Was_ the
suspected fellow the thief?  A pretty question!  If not, where was the
man, and why did he not come back? How was what done? I don't see why, So many people are employed in
situations of trust; so many people, out of so many, will be dishonest.
I have heard you talk, a hundred times, of its being a law.  How can _I_
help laws?  You have comforted others with such things, father.  Comfort
yourself! I suppose I must.  I can't be more miserable anywhere, than I have been here, ever since I can remember.  That's one
thing. Not you.  I don't want to have anything to say to you! After all your love! Pretty love!  Leaving
old Bounderby to himself, and packing my best friend Mr. Harthouse off,
and going home just when I was in the greatest danger.  Pretty love that!
Coming out with every word about our having gone to that place, when you
saw the net was gathering round me.  Pretty love that!  You have
regularly given me up.  You never cared for me. 

Master Kidderminster DIALOGUES
By your leaves, gentlemen! And when you have made it, you can keep it too, I should think, What does he come here cheeking us for, then? If you want to
cheek us, pay your ochre at the doors and take it out. Offered at the Garters four times last night, and never done 'em once, Missed his tip at the banners, too, and was
loose in his ponging. Lower yourself, then, Oh Lord! if you've raised
yourself so high as all that comes to, let yourself down a bit. We'd have had a young gentleman to meet you, if we had known you were
coming, It's a pity
you don't have a bespeak, being so particular.  You're on the Tight-Jeff,
ain't you? 

Mr. E. W. B. Childers DIALOGUES
By your leaves, gentlemen, It was you, I believe, that were wishing to see Jupe! I have not, the honour of knowing _you_,   but if you mean that you can make
more money of your time than I can of mine, I should judge from your
appearance, that you are about right. Kidderminster, stow that! Kidderminster, stow that!   Sir, I was addressing myself to you.  You may or you may
not be aware (for perhaps you have not been much in the audience), that
Jupe has missed his tip very often, lately. Didn't do what he ought to do.  Was short in his leaps and bad in his
tumbling, In a general way that's missing his tip, There!  Get out, get out! Tight-Jeff or Slack-Jeff,
it don't much signify: it's only tight-rope and slack-rope.  You were
going to give me a message for Jupe? Then, my opinion is, he will never
receive it.  Do you know much of him? I doubt if you ever _will_ see him now.  It's pretty plain to me, he's
off. Ay!  I mean, that he has cut.  He was
goosed last night, he was goosed the night before last, he was goosed
to-day.  He has lately got in the way of being always goosed, and he
can't stand it. His joints are turning stiff, and he is getting used up, He has his points as a Cackler still, but he can't get a living out of
_them_. A speaker, if the gentleman likes it better, Now, it's a remarkable fact, sir, that it cut that man deeper, to
know that his daughter knew of his being goosed, than to go through with
it. It's all the same to me what he is or what he is not, whether in English
or whether in French, I
am telling your friend what's the fact; if you don't like to hear it, you
can avail yourself of the open air.  You give it mouth enough, you do;
but give it mouth in your own building at least, Don't give it mouth in this building, till you're
called upon.  You have got some building of your own I dare say, now? Then give it mouth in your own building, will you, if you please? Because this isn't a strong building, and too much of you
might bring it down! Jupe sent his daughter out on an errand not an hour ago, and then was
seen to slip out himself, with his hat over his eyes, and a bundle tied
up in a handkerchief under his arm.  She will never believe it of him,
but he has cut away and left her. Because those two were one.  Because they were never asunder.  Because,
up to this time, he seemed to dote upon her, Poor Sissy!  He had better have apprenticed her, Now, he
leaves her without anything to take to. _I_ never apprenticed?  I was apprenticed when I was seven year old. Her father always had it in his head, that she was to be taught
the deuce-and-all of education.  How it got into his head, I can't say; I
can only say that it never got out.  He has been picking up a bit of
reading for her, here   and a bit of writing for her, there   and a bit of
ciphering for her, somewhere else   these seven years. When Sissy got into the school here, her father was as
pleased as Punch.  I couldn't altogether make out why, myself, as we were
not stationary here, being but comers and goers anywhere.  I suppose,
however, he had this move in his mind   he was always half-cracked   and then
considered her provided for.  If you should happen to have looked in
to-night, for the purpose of telling him that you were going to do her
any little service, it would be very fortunate and well-timed; very
fortunate and well-timed. 

Mr. Sleary DIALOGUES
Thquire! Your thervant!
Thith ith a bad piethe of bithnith, thith ith.  You've heard of my Clown
and hith dog being thuppothed to have morrithed? Well, Thquire, Ith
it your intenthion to do anything for the poor girl, Thquire? Glad to hear it, Thquire.  Not that I want to get rid of the child, any
more than I want to thtand in her way.  I'm willing to take her prentith,
though at her age ith late.  My voithe ith a little huthky, Thquire, and
not eathy heard by them ath don't know me; but if you'd been chilled and
heated, heated and chilled, chilled and heated in the ring when you wath
young, ath often ath I have been, _your_ voithe wouldn't have lathted
out, Thquire, no more than mine. What thall it be, Thquire, while you wait?  Thall it be Therry?  Give it
a name, Thquire! Don't thay nothing, Thquire.  What doth your friend thay?  If you
haven't took your feed yet, have a glath of bitterth. Ith an internal thame, upon my thoul it ith, I tell you what, Thquire.  To thpeak plain to you, my opinion ith that
you had better cut it thort, and drop it.  They're a very good natur'd
people, my people, but they're accuthtomed to be quick in their
movementh; and if you don't act upon my advithe, I'm damned if I don't
believe they'll pith you out o' winder. Thath agreed, Thquire.  Thick to that! At the thame time, I mutht put in my word, Thquire, tho
that both thides of the banner may be equally theen.  If you like,
Thethilia, to be prentitht, you know the natur of the work and you know
your companionth.  Emma Gordon, in whothe lap you're a lying at prethent,
would be a mother to you, and Joth'phine would be a thithter to you.  I
don't pretend to be of the angel breed myself, and I don't thay but what,
when you mith'd your tip, you'd find me cut up rough, and thwear an oath
or two at you.  But what I thay, Thquire, ith, that good tempered or bad
tempered, I never did a horthe a injury yet, no more than thwearing at
him went, and that I don't expect I thall begin otherwithe at my time of
life, with a rider.  I never wath much of a Cackler, Thquire, and I have
thed my thay. Thleary.  Thath my name, Thquire.  Not athamed of it.  Known all over
England, and alwayth paythe ith way. Well known, You're one of
the thort, Thquire, that keepth a prethiouth thight of money out of the
houthe.  But never mind that at prethent. Good-bye, my dear! You'll make your fortun, I hope, and
none of our poor folkth will ever trouble you, I'll pound it.  I with
your father hadn't taken hith dog with him; ith a ill-conwenienth to have
the dog out of the billth.  But on thecond thoughth, he wouldn't have
performed without hith mathter, tho ith ath broad ath ith long! There the ith, Thquire, and the'll do you
juthtithe.  Good-bye, Thethilia! Leave the bottle, my dear; ith large
to carry; it will be of no uthe to you now.  Give it to me! Tho be it, my dear.  (You thee how it ith, Thquire!)  Farewell,
Thethilia!  My latht wordth to you ith thith, Thtick to the termth of
your engagement, be obedient to the Thquire, and forget uth.  But if,
when you're grown up and married and well off, you come upon any
horthe-riding ever, don't be hard upon it, don't be croth with it, give
it a Bethpeak if you can, and think you might do wurth.  People mutht be
amuthed, Thquire, thomehow, they can't be alwayth a working, nor yet they
can't be alwayth a learning.  Make the betht of uth; not the wurtht.
I've got my living out of the horthe-riding all my life, I know; but I
conthider that I lay down the philothophy of the thubject when I thay to
you, Thquire, make the betht of uth: not the wurtht! Thethilia, it doth me good to thee you.  You wath alwayth
a favourite with uth, and you've done uth credith thinth the old timeth
I'm thure.  You mutht thee our people, my dear, afore we thpeak of
bithnith, or they'll break their hearth   ethpethially the women.  Here'th
Jothphine hath been and got married to E. W. B. Childerth, and thee hath
got a boy, and though he'th only three yearth old, he thtickth on to any
pony you can bring againtht him.  He'th named The Little Wonder of
Thcolathtic Equitation; and if you don't hear of that boy at Athley'th,
you'll hear of him at Parith.  And you recollect Kidderminthter, that
wath thought to be rather thweet upon yourthelf?  Well.  He'th married
too.  Married a widder.  Old enough to be hith mother.  Thee wath
Tightrope, thee wath, and now thee'th nothing   on accounth of fat.
They've got two children, tho we're thtrong in the Fairy bithnith and the
Nurthery dodge.  If you wath to thee our Children in the Wood, with their
father and mother both a dyin' on a horthe   their uncle a retheiving of
'em ath hith wardth, upon a horthe   themthelvth both a goin' a
black-berryin' on a horthe   and the Robinth a coming in to cover 'em with
leavth, upon a horthe   you'd thay it wath the completetht thing ath ever
you thet your eyeth on!  And you remember Emma Gordon, my dear, ath wath
a'motht a mother to you?  Of courthe you do; I needn't athk.  Well!
Emma, thee lotht her huthband.  He wath throw'd a heavy back-fall off a
Elephant in a thort of a Pagoda thing ath the Thultan of the Indieth, and
he never got the better of it; and thee married a thecond time   married a
Cheethemonger ath fell in love with her from the front   and he'th a
Overtheer and makin' a fortun. There!  Now Thethilia hath kithd all the children, and hugged all the
women, and thaken handth all round with all the men, clear, every one of
you, and ring in the band for the thecond part! Now, Thethilia,
I don't athk to know any thecreth, but I thuppothe I may conthider thith
to be Mith Thquire. And t'other on'th daughter.  That'h what I mean.  Hope I thee you well,
mith.  And I hope the Thquire'th well? Thafe and thound! I want you jutht to take a peep at the
Ring, mith, through here.  Thethilia, you know the dodgeth; find a
thpy-hole for yourthelf. That'h Jack the Giant Killer   piethe of comic infant bithnith, There'th a property-houthe, you thee, for Jack to hide in;
there'th my Clown with a thauthepan-lid and a thpit, for Jack'th
thervant; there'th little Jack himthelf in a thplendid thoot of armour;
there'th two comic black thervanth twithe ath big ath the houthe, to
thtand by it and to bring it in and clear it; and the Giant (a very
ecthpenthive bathket one), he an't on yet.  Now, do you thee 'em all? Look at 'em again, look at 'em well.  You thee em all?
Very good.  Now, mith; I have my
opinionth, and the Thquire your father hath hith.  I don't want to know
what your brother'th been up to; ith better for me not to know.  All I
thay ith, the Thquire hath thtood by Thethilia, and I'll thtand by the
Thquire.  Your brother ith one them black thervanth. Ith a fact, and even knowin' it, you couldn't put your
finger on him.  Let the Thquire come.  I thall keep your brother here
after the performanth.  I thant undreth him, nor yet wath hith paint off.
Let the Thquire come here after the performanth, or come here yourthelf
after the performanth, and you thall find your brother, and have the
whole plathe to talk to him in.  Never mind the lookth of him, ath long
ath he'th well hid. Your thervant, Thquire, If you want me you'll find me here.  You muthn't mind your thon having a
comic livery on. Why, I've been thinking of it, Thquire.  There'th not muth time to
lothe, tho you muth thay yeth or no.  Ith over twenty mileth to the rail.
There'th a coath in half an hour, that goeth _to_ the rail, 'purpothe to
cath the mail train.  That train will take him right to Liverpool. I don't mean that he thould go in the comic livery, Thay
the word, and I'll make a Jothkin of him, out of the wardrobe, in five
minutes. A Jothkin   a Carter.  Make up your mind quick, Thquire.  There'll be beer
to feth.  I've never met with nothing but beer ath'll ever clean a comic
blackamoor. Now, come along to the coath, and jump up behind; I'll go
with you there, and they'll thuppothe you one of my people.  Thay
farewell to your family, and tharp'th the word. Tharp'th the word! Thquire, you know perfectly well, and your daughter knowth perfectly
well (better than you, becauthe I thed it to her), that I didn't know
what your thon had done, and that I didn't want to know   I thed it wath
better not, though I only thought, then, it wath thome thkylarking.
However, thith young man having made it known to be a robbery of a bank,
why, that'h a theriouth thing; muth too theriouth a thing for me to
compound, ath thith young man hath very properly called it.
Conthequently, Thquire, you muthn't quarrel with me if I take thith young
man'th thide, and thay he'th right and there'th no help for it.  But I
tell you what I'll do, Thquire; I'll drive your thon and thith young man
over to the rail, and prevent expothure here.  I can't conthent to do
more, but I'll do that. The Thquire thtood by you, Thethilia, and I'll thtand by the Thquire.
More than that: thith ith a prethiouth rathcal, and belongth to that
bluthtering Cove that my people nearly pitht out o' winder.  It'll be a
dark night; I've got a horthe that'll do anything but thpeak; I've got a
pony that'll go fifteen mile an hour with Childerth driving of him; I've
got a dog that'll keep a man to one plathe four-and-twenty hourth.  Get a
word with the young Thquire.  Tell him, when he theeth our horthe begin
to danthe, not to be afraid of being thpilt, but to look out for a
pony-gig coming up.  Tell him, when he theeth that gig clothe by, to jump
down, and it'll take him off at a rattling pathe.  If my dog leth thith
young man thtir a peg on foot, I give him leave to go.  And if my horthe
ever thtirth from that thpot where he beginth a danthing, till the
morning   I don't know him?   Tharp'th the word! All right, Thquire! your thon may be aboard-a-thip by
thith time.  Childerth took him off, an hour and a half after we left
there latht night.  The horthe danthed the polka till he wath dead beat
(he would have walthed if he hadn't been in harneth), and then I gave him
the word and he went to thleep comfortable.  When that prethiouth young
Rathcal thed he'd go for'ard afoot, the dog hung on to hith
neck-hankercher with all four legth in the air and pulled him down and
rolled him over.  Tho he come back into the drag, and there he that,
'till I turned the horthe'th head, at half-patht thixth thith morning. I don't want money mythelf, Thquire; but Childerth ith a family man, and
if you wath to like to offer him a five-pound note, it mightn't be
unactheptable.  Likewithe if you wath to thtand a collar for the dog, or
a thet of bellth for the horthe, I thould be very glad to take 'em.
Brandy and water I alwayth take. If you wouldn't think it going too far,
Thquire, to make a little thpread for the company at about three and
thixth ahead, not reckoning Luth, it would make 'em happy. Very well, Thquire; then, if you'll only give a Horthe-riding, a
bethpeak, whenever you can, you'll more than balanthe the account.  Now,
Thquire, if your daughter will ethcuthe me, I thould like one parting
word with you. Thquire,   you don't need to be told that dogth ith wonderful animalth. Whatever you call it   and I'm bletht if _I_ know what to call it it ith athtonithing.  The way in whith a dog'll find you   the
dithtanthe he'll come! I'm bletht if I know what to call it, but I have had dogth find me, Thquire, in a way that made me think
whether that dog hadn't gone to another dog, and thed, And whether that
dog mightn't have thed, And
whether that dog mightn't have thought it over, and thed, In conthequenth of my
being afore the public, and going about tho muth, you thee, there mutht
be a number of dogth acquainted with me, Thquire, that _I_ don't know! Any way, ith fourteen month ago, Thquire, thinthe we wath at Chethter.  We wath
getting up our Children in the Wood one morning, when there cometh into
our Ring, by the thtage door, a dog.  He had travelled a long way, he
wath in a very bad condithon, he wath lame, and pretty well blind.  He
went round to our children, one after another, as if he wath a theeking
for a child he know'd; and then he come to me, and throwd hithelf up
behind, and thtood on hith two forelegth, weak ath he wath, and then he
wagged hith tail and died.  Thquire, that dog wath Merrylegth. Thethilia'th father'th old dog.  Now, Thquire, I can take my oath, from
my knowledge of that dog, that that man wath dead   and buried   afore that
dog come back to me.  Joth'phine and Childerth and me talked it over a
long time, whether I thould write or not.  But we agreed, Tho, whether her father bathely detherted her; or whether he
broke hith own heart alone, rather than pull her down along with him;
never will be known, now, Thquire, till   no, not till we know how the
dogth findth uth out! It theemth to prethent two thingth to a perthon, don't it, Thquire? one, that there ith a love in the world, not all
Thelf-interetht after all, but thomething very different; t'other, that
it hath a way of ith own of calculating or not calculating, whith
thomehow or another ith at leatht ath hard to give a name to, ath the
wayth of the dogth ith! Thethilia my dear, kith me and good-bye!  Mith Thquire, to thee you
treating of her like a thithter, and a thithter that you trutht and
honour with all your heart and more, ith a very pretty thight to me.  I
hope your brother may live to be better detherving of you, and a greater
comfort to you.  Thquire, thake handth, firtht and latht!  Don't be croth
with uth poor vagabondth.  People mutht be amuthed.  They can't be
alwayth a learning, nor yet they can't be alwayth a working, they an't
made for it.  You _mutht_ have uth, Thquire.  Do the withe thing and the
kind thing too, and make the betht of uth; not the wurtht! And I never thought before, that I wath tho muth of a Cackler! 

Josephine Sleary DIALOGUES
Father, hush!
she has come back! 

Mrs. Sparsit DIALOGUES
a Powler. Mr. Bounderby, you are unusually slow, sir, with
your breakfast this morning. The girl is now waiting to know, whether she is to
go straight to the school, or up to the Lodge. Of course she can if you wish it, Mr. Bounderby. Indeed, Mr. Bounderby?  Very thoughtful of you! Are you speaking of young Miss Gradgrind, Mr. Bounderby? and there being two little girls in question, I did not know which might
be indicated by that expression. Your observation being limited to "little puss," You are quite another father to Louisa, sir. Indeed?  Rather young for that, is he not, sir? I certainly, sir, was familiar with the Italian Opera at a very early age. I trust, sir, it is
not necessary that you should do anything of that kind.  I hope I have
learnt how to accommodate myself to the changes of life.  If I have
acquired an interest in hearing of your instructive experiences, and can
scarcely hear enough of them, I claim no merit for that, since I believe
it is a general sentiment. I do not, sir, deny
it. It is true, sir, Yes, sir, It is unquestionably true. You are very good indeed, sir, It is not worth speaking of. I can go, Mr.
Bounderby, if you wish it, Sir, I hope I never had nowt to say, not fitten for a born lady to year,
sin' I were born mysen', Was it an unequal marriage, sir, in point of years? Indeed, sir? I
inferred, from its being so miserable a marriage, that it was probably an
unequal one in point of years. He wishes to be free, to marry the female of whom he speaks, I fear,
sir, Good evening, Mr. Bounderby! Thank you, sir, Sir, this is indeed not the first time that you
have honoured me with similar expressions of your good opinion. Yes, sir? Yes, sir, I hope you may be happy, Mr.
Bounderby.  Oh, indeed I hope you may be happy, sir! I wish with all my heart, sir, that you may be in all respects very happy. _Do_ you, sir! But
naturally you do; of course you do. Oh, dear no, sir, I could on no account think of that! I beg your pardon, sir.  You were so good as to promise that you would
always substitute the phrase, annual compliment. Sir, The proposal is like yourself, and if the
position I shall assume at the Bank is one that I could occupy without
descending lower in the social scale Mr. Bounderby, you are very considerate. Sir, say no more.  In yielding up my trust
here, I shall not be freed from the necessity of eating the bread of
dependence: and I would
rather receive it from your hand, than from any other.  Therefore, sir, I
accept your offer gratefully, and with many sincere acknowledgments for
past favours.  And I hope, sir, I fondly hope that Miss Gradgrind may
be all you desire, and deserve! Thank you, Bitzer, All is shut up, Bitzer? And what, is the news of the
day?  Anything? What are the restless wretches doing now? It is much to be regretted, that the united masters allow of any such class-combinations. Being united themselves, they ought one and all to set their faces
against employing any man who is united with any other man, I do not pretend to understand these things, my lot having been signally cast in a widely different sphere;
and Mr. Sparsit, as a Powler, being also quite out of the pale of any
such dissensions.  I only know that these people must be conquered, and
that it's high time it was done, once for all. Has it been a busy day, Bitzer? The clerks, are trustworthy,
punctual, and industrious, of course? Ah   h! Bitzer, do you
recollect my having said anything to you respecting names? Please to remember that I have a charge here, I hold a trust here, Bitzer, under Mr. Bounderby.
However improbable both Mr. Bounderby and myself might have deemed it
years ago, that he would ever become my patron, making me an annual
compliment, I cannot but regard him in that light.  From Mr. Bounderby I
have received every acknowledgment of my social station, and every
recognition of my family descent, that I could possibly expect.  More,
far more.  Therefore, to my patron I will be scrupulously true.  And I do
not consider, I will not consider, I cannot consider, that I
_should_ be scrupulously true, if I allowed names to be mentioned under
this roof, that are unfortunately   most unfortunately   no doubt of
that   connected with his. No, Bitzer, say an individual, and I will hear
you; say Mr. Thomas, and you must excuse me. Ah   h! Ah   h! Ah   h! Yes, Bitzer, I have always pitied the delusion,
always. They would do well, to take example by you,
Bitzer. Pretend indeed! Because they are improvident, To be sure, Nothing just now, Bitzer. I don't know who it can be, What a stranger can want at the Bank at this time of the evening, unless
he comes upon some business for which he is too late, I don't know, but I hold a charge in this establishment from Mr.
Bounderby, and I will never shrink from it.  If to see him is any part of
the duty I have accepted, I will see him.  Use your own discretion,
Bitzer. I believe, sir, you wished to see me. Humph! Five and
thirty, good-looking, good figure, good teeth, good voice, good breeding,
well-dressed, dark hair, bold eyes. Please to be seated, sir, In general much blacker, No, sir, It was once my good or ill fortune,
as it may be   before I became a widow   to move in a very different sphere.
My husband was a Powler. A Powler. I am the servant of circumstances, sir, and I have
long adapted myself to the governing power of my life. May I be permitted to ask, sir, to what I am
indebted for the favour of No, sir, he does not. Yes, sir, In my dependent relation towards
him, I have known him ten years. Yes, he had
that   honour. Indeed, sir, _Is_ she? A chit, Not twenty when she
was married. What do you think of the gentleman, Bitzer? It must be admitted, that it's very tasteful. It's immoral to game, O, you Fool! I have already had the honour Very well.  They live at the Bank.  You know they live at the Bank,
perhaps?  Very well.  Yesterday afternoon, at the close of business
hours, everything was put away as usual.  In the iron room that this
young fellow sleeps outside of, there was never mind how much.  In the
little safe in young Tom's closet, the safe used for petty purposes,
there was a hundred and fifty odd pound. Sir, I cannot say that I have heard him
precisely snore, and therefore must not make that statement.  But on
winter evenings, when he has fallen asleep at his table, I have heard
him, what I should prefer to describe as partially choke.  I have heard
him on such occasions produce sounds of a nature similar to what may be
sometimes heard in Dutch clocks.  Not, that I would convey any imputation on
his moral character.  Far from it.  I have always considered Bitzer a
young man of the most upright principle; and to that I beg to bear my
testimony. Assuredly, sir, you did, in a highly impressive
manner, give him such an admonition. Yes, sir, he
certainly did so.  Though I do not mean to say but that my feelings may
be weaker on such points   more foolish if the term is preferred   than they
might have been, if I had always occupied my present position. but it is my duty to remember, that what I was, I am no longer.
Indeed, if I could altogether cancel the remembrance that Mr.
Sparsit was a Powler, or that I myself am related to the Scadgers family;
or if I could even revoke the fact, and make myself a person of common
descent and ordinary connexions; I would gladly do so.  I should think
it, under existing circumstances, right to do so. Indeed you are very good, sir; wait for the
simple mutton. You have still good spirits, sir, I am thankful
to find; Miss Gradgrind, the differences, being such. Don't be low, sir.
Pray let me see you cheerful, sir, as I used to do. I cannot bear to see you so, sir, Try
a hand at backgammon, sir, as you used to do when I had the honour of
living under your roof. No, sir, I am aware that you have not.  I remember that Miss Gradgrind takes no
interest in the game.  But I shall be happy, sir, if you will
condescend. Oh dear no, sir, I
was thinking of the dew. It's not myself, sir, I am
fearful of Miss Gradgrind's taking cold. Really, sir? Oh, sir? Not your sherry warm, with
lemon-peel and nutmeg? The more's the pity, sir, you are losing all your good old habits.  Cheer up, sir!
If Miss Gradgrind will permit me, I will offer to make it for you, as I
have often done. It appears but yesterday, sir, that I had the
honour of receiving you at the Bank, when you were so good as to wish to
be made acquainted with Mr. Bounderby's address. We live in a singular world, sir, A singular world, I would say, sir, as regards the intimacies we form at one time, with individuals
we were quite ignorant of, at another.  I recall, sir, that on that
occasion you went so far as to say you were actually apprehensive of Miss
Gradgrind. You found Miss Gradgrind   I really cannot call her Mrs. Bounderby; it's
very absurd of me   as youthful as I described her? Very engaging, sir, It used to be considered, that Miss Gradgrind was
wanting in animation, but I confess she appears to me considerably and
strikingly improved in that respect.  Ay, and indeed here _is_ Mr.
Bounderby! How do you find
yourself this morning, sir?  Pray let us see you cheerful, sir. You want your breakfast, sir, but I dare say
Miss Gradgrind will soon be here to preside at the table, Don't say that, sir, because that is very unkind to Mrs. Bounderby.  And to be unkind is not
to be you, sir. My benefactor! Serve you right, you Noodle, and I am glad
of it. To hear is to obey. And pray, sir, if I may venture to ask a question
appertaining to any subject on which you show reserve   which is indeed
hardy in me, for I well know you have a reason for everything you do   have
you received intelligence respecting the robbery? Very true, sir, No, indeed, sir, Ah! Very sagacious indeed, sir, Very interesting.  The
old woman you mentioned, sir If not quite! Your foot on the last step, my lady, and all
your art shall never blind me. Pray, sir, let me beg you not to
say that.  Your absence will make a vast difference to me, sir, as I
think you very well know. Mr. Bounderby, your will is to me a law, sir;
otherwise, it might be my inclination to dispute your kind commands, not
feeling sure that it will be quite so agreeable to Miss Gradgrind to
receive me, as it ever is to your own munificent hospitality.  But you
shall say no more, sir.  I will go, upon your invitation. No, indeed, sir, I should hope not.  Say no
more, sir.  I would, sir, I could see you gay again. Sir, there was wont to be an elasticity in you
which I sadly miss.  Be buoyant, sir! Bitzer, present my compliments to young
Mr. Thomas, and ask him if he would step up and partake of a lamb chop
and walnut ketchup, with a glass of India ale? Mr. Thomas, these plain
viands being on table, I thought you might be tempted. How is Mr. Harthouse, Mr. Tom? Where may he be at present? The kind of gentleman, now, whom one might
wager to be a good shot! Mr. Harthouse is a great favourite of mine, as
indeed he is of most people.  May we expect to see him again shortly, Mr.
Tom? Good news! Which reminds me! Would you remember a message to
your sister, Mr. Tom, if I was to charge you with one? It is merely my respectful compliments, and I fear
I may not trouble her with my society this week; being still a little
nervous, and better perhaps by my poor self. This is a device to keep him out of the way, Harthouse is with his sister now! You may hang your head, to make yourself the more attractive; _I_ don't
know what they see in you when you hold it up, but you little think, my dearest love, whose eyes are on you! Oh, my dearest love, you little think how well attended you are! She will be at Coketown long before him, though
his horse is never so good.  Where will she wait for him?  And where will
they go together?  Patience.  We shall see. She will get into one, and
will be away before I can follow in another.  At all risks of being run
over, I must see the number, and hear the order given to the coachman. I have lost her! Sir, my nerves are at present too much shaken,
and my health is at present too much impaired, in your service, to admit
of my doing more than taking refuge in tears. It's a coincidence, It's a Providence!  Come out, ma'am! come out, or we'll have you dragged out! Leave her alone, everybody! Let nobody touch her.  She belongs to me.  Come in, ma'am! Come in, ma'am, or
we'll have you dragged in! Fetch Mr. Bounderby down! Rachael, young woman;
you know who this is? I should think it is! Fetch Mr.
Bounderby.  Stand away, everybody! Don't tell me, I have told you twenty
times, coming along, that I will _not_ leave you till I have handed you
over to him myself. Sir, I trust it is my good fortune to
produce a person you have much desired to find.  Stimulated by my wish to
relieve your mind, sir, and connecting together such imperfect clues to
the part of the country in which that person might be supposed to reside,
as have been afforded by the young woman, Rachael, fortunately now
present to identify, I have had the happiness to succeed, and to bring
that person with me   I need not say most unwillingly on her part.  It has
not been, sir, without some trouble that I have effected this; but
trouble in your service is to me a pleasure, and hunger, thirst, and cold
a real gratification. Sir! Pray, sir, do not bite my nose off. Mr. Bounderby,
sir! May I ask, sir, have you been ruffled this
morning? May I inquire, sir, whether _I_ am the
unfortunate cause of your having lost your temper? It is apparent to me that I am in your
way at present.  I will retire to my own apartment. Sir, Thank you, sir; I can do it for myself. Really, sir? Oh!  Pray, sir, don't disparage your judgment.  Everybody knows how unerring Mr.
Bounderby's judgment is.  Everybody has had proofs of it.  It must be the
theme of general conversation.  Disparage anything in yourself but your
judgment, sir, It never occurred to me before, sir, but now
you mention it, should think it highly probable. Pray don't name it, sir, If that portrait
could speak, sir   but it has the advantage over the original of not
possessing the power of committing itself and disgusting others,   it would
testify, that a long period has elapsed since I first habitually
addressed it as the picture of a Noodle.  Nothing that a Noodle does, can
awaken surprise or indignation; the proceedings of a Noodle can only
inspire contempt. 

Mr. M'choakumchild DIALOGUES
What is the first
principle of this science? 

Stephen Blackpool DIALOGUES
Yet I don't see Rachael, still! Why, then, ha' missed her! Rachael! I thought thou wast ahind me, Rachael? Early t'night, lass? Nor going t'other way, neither, 't seems to me, Rachael? No, Rachael, thou'rt as young as ever thou wast. 'Tis hard, anyways, Rachael. I've tried a long time, and 'ta'nt got better.  But thou'rt right; 't
might mak fok talk, even of thee.  Thou hast been that to me, Rachael,
through so many year: thou hast done me so much good, and heartened of me
in that cheering way, that thy word is a law to me.  Ah, lass, and a
bright good law!  Better than some real ones. Yes, Let 'em be.  Let everything be.
Let all sorts alone.  'Tis a muddle, and that's aw. Ay, Rachael, lass,
awlus a muddle.  That's where I stick.  I come to the muddle many times
and agen, and I never get beyond it. Good night, dear lass; good night! Heaven's mercy, woman! Hast thou come back again! No, sir, sure I ha' not coom for nowt o' th' kind. I ha' coom, to ask yo yor advice.  I need 't overmuch.  I
were married on Eas'r Monday nineteen year sin, long and dree.  She were
a young lass   pretty enow   wi' good accounts of herseln.  Well!  She went
bad   soon.  Not along of me.  Gonnows I were not a unkind husband to her. I were patient wi' her. I were very patient wi' her.  I tried to wean her fra 't ower and ower
agen.  I tried this, I tried that, I tried t'other.  I ha' gone home,
many's the time, and found all vanished as I had in the world, and her
without a sense left to bless herseln lying on bare ground.  I ha' dun 't
not once, not twice   twenty time! From bad to worse, from worse to worsen.  She left me.  She disgraced
herseln everyways, bitter and bad.  She coom back, she coom back, she
coom back.  What could I do t' hinder her?  I ha' walked the streets
nights long, ere ever I'd go home.  I ha' gone t' th' brigg, minded to
fling myseln ower, and ha' no more on't.  I ha' bore that much, that I
were owd when I were young. I ha' paid her to keep awa' fra' me.  These five year I ha' paid her.  I
ha' gotten decent fewtrils about me agen.  I ha' lived hard and sad, but
not ashamed and fearfo' a' the minnits o' my life.  Last night, I went
home.  There she lay upon my har-stone!  There she is! Not e'en so.  I were one-and-twenty myseln; she were twenty nighbut. I ha' coom to ask yo, sir, how I am to be ridded o' this woman. I mun' be ridden o' her.  I cannot bear 't nommore.  I ha' lived under
't so long, for that I ha' had'n the pity and comforting words o' th'
best lass living or dead.  Haply, but for her, I should ha' gone
battering mad. I do.  The lady says what's right.  I do.  I were a coming to 't.  I ha'
read i' th' papers that great folk (fair faw 'em a'!  I wishes 'em no
hurt!) are not bonded together for better for worst so fast, but that
they can be set free fro' _their_ misfortnet marriages, an' marry ower
agen.  When they dunnot agree, for that their tempers is ill-sorted, they
has rooms o' one kind an' another in their houses, above a bit, and they
can live asunders.  We fok ha' only one room, and we can't.  When that
won't do, they ha' gowd an' other cash, an' they can say an' they can go their separate ways.  We can't.  Spite
o' all that, they can be set free for smaller wrongs than mine.  So, I
mun be ridden o' this woman, and I want t' know how? If I do her any hurt, sir, there's a law to punish me? If I flee from her, there's a law to punish me? If I marry t'oother dear lass, there's a law to punish me? If I was to live wi' her an' not marry her   saying such a thing could be,
which it never could or would, an' her so good   there's a law to punish
me, in every innocent child belonging to me? Now, a' God's name, show me the law to help
me! No no, dunnot say that, sir.  'Tan't kep' up that way.  Not that way.
'Tis kep' down that way.  I'm a weaver, I were in a fact'ry when a chilt,
but I ha' gotten een to see wi' and eern to year wi'.  I read in th'
papers every 'Sizes, every Sessions   and you read too   I know it!   with
dismay   how th' supposed unpossibility o' ever getting unchained from one
another, at any price, on any terms, brings blood upon this land, and
brings many common married fok to battle, murder, and sudden death.  Let
us ha' this, right understood.  Mine's a grievous case, an' I want   if yo
will be so good   t' know the law that helps me. How much might that be? There's no other law? Why then, sir, "_tis_ a
muddle.  'Tis just a muddle a'toogether, an' the sooner I am dead, the
better. 'Tis a' a muddle! Tis a muddle, Yes, missus, it were me. Yes, missus. O yes, he were all that. Yes, He were ett'n and drinking   as large and as
loud as a Hummobee. Only to see 'em? 'Deed 'tis.  Don't do't too often, missus. Why   there's awmost nobbody but has their troubles, missus. Times.  Just now and then, A dozen year, I ha' been walking up an' down. O Rachael, Rachael! But thy rest agen to-morrow's work, my dear. How long, Rachael, is 't looked for, that she'll be so? No, it was not that.  He had had a fright. Ay, ay! coming in.  When I were walking.  When I were thinking.  When
I No!  Don't, please; don't.  Let me see thee setten by the bed.  Let me
see thee, a' so good, and so forgiving.  Let me see thee as I see thee
when I coom in.  I can never see thee better than so.  Never, never,
never! Rachael, am I wakin' or dreamin' this
dreadfo' night? Thou'lt let me walk wi' thee at this hour, Rachael? Thou'rt not fearfo'; to leave me alone wi' her! Thou art an Angel.  Bless thee, bless thee! Thou changest me from bad to good.  Thou mak'st me humbly wishfo' to be
more like thee, and fearfo' to lose thee when this life is ower, and a'
the muddle cleared awa'.  Thou'rt an Angel; it may be, thou hast saved my
soul alive! I coom home desp'rate.  I coom home wi'out a hope, and mad wi' thinking
that when I said a word o' complaint I was reckoned a unreasonable Hand.
I told thee I had had a fright.  It were the Poison-bottle on table.  I
never hurt a livin' creetur; but happenin' so suddenly upon 't, I thowt,
"How can _I_ say what I might ha' done to myseln, or her, or both!" But I see thee, Rachael, setten by the bed.  I ha' seen thee, aw this
night.  In my troublous sleep I ha' known thee still to be there.
Evermore I will see thee there.  I nevermore will see her or think o'
her, but thou shalt be beside her.  I nevermore will see or think o'
anything that angers me, but thou, so much better than me, shalt be by
th' side on't.  And so I will try t' look t' th' time, and so I will try
t' trust t' th' time, when thou and me at last shall walk together far
awa', beyond the deep gulf, in th' country where thy little sister is. My friends, I ha' hed
what's been spok'n o' me, and 'tis lickly that I shan't mend it.  But I'd
liefer you'd hearn the truth concernin myseln, fro my lips than fro onny
other man's, though I never cud'n speak afore so monny, wi'out bein
moydert and muddled. I'm th' one single Hand in Bounderby's mill, o' a' the men theer, as
don't coom in wi' th' proposed reg'lations.  I canna coom in wi' 'em.  My
friends, I doubt their doin' yo onny good.  Licker they'll do yo hurt. But 't an't sommuch for that as I stands out.  If that were aw, I'd coom
in wi' th' rest.  But I ha' my reasons   mine, yo see   for being hindered;
not on'y now, but awlus   awlus   life long! 'Tis this Delegate's trade for t' speak, an' he's paid
for 't, an' he knows his work.  Let him keep to 't.  Let him give no heed
to what I ha had'n to bear.  That's not for him.  That's not for nobbody
but me. My brothers, and
my fellow-workmen   for that yo are to me, though not, as I knows on, to
this delegate here   I ha but a word to sen, and I could sen nommore if I
was to speak till Strike o' day.  I know weel, aw what's afore me.  I
know weel that yo aw resolve to ha nommore ado wi' a man who is not wi'
yo in this matther.  I know weel that if I was a lyin parisht i' th'
road, yo'd feel it right to pass me by, as a forrenner and stranger.
What I ha getn, I mun mak th' best on. I ha thowt on 't, above a bit, sir.  I simply canna coom in.  I mun go
th' way as lays afore me.  I mun tak my leave o' aw heer. Monny's the pleasant word as soom heer has spok'n wi' me; monny's the
face I see heer, as I first seen when I were yoong and lighter heart'n
than now.  I ha' never had no fratch afore, sin ever I were born, wi' any
o' my like; Gonnows I ha' none now that's o' my makin'.  Yo'll ca' me
traitor and that   yo I mean t' say, but 'tis
easier to ca' than mak' out.  So let be. Haply, haply, when this question has been tak'n up and discoosed,
there'll be a threat to turn out if I'm let to work among yo.  I hope I
shall die ere ever such a time cooms, and I shall work solitary among yo
unless it cooms   truly, I mun do 't, my friends; not to brave yo, but to
live.  I ha nobbut work to live by; and wheerever can I go, I who ha
worked sin I were no heighth at aw, in Coketown heer?  I mak' no
complaints o' bein turned to the wa', o' bein outcasten and overlooken
fro this time forrard, but hope I shall be let to work.  If there is any
right for me at aw, my friends, I think 'tis that. Yes. Yes, Yes, What were it, sir, as yo were pleased to want wi' me? Wi' yor pardon, sir, I ha' nowt to sen about
it. I sed as I had nowt to sen, sir; not as I was fearfo' o' openin' my
lips. I'm as sooary as yo, sir, when the people's leaders is bad, They taks such as offers.  Haply 'tis na'
the sma'est o' their misfortuns when they can get no better. How 't happens? I'd leefer not coom to 't, sir; but sin you put th' question   an' not
want'n t' be ill-manner'n   I'll answer.  I ha passed a promess. O no, sir.  Not to yo. Why yes, sir.  'Tis true. Nay, ma'am, Not rebels, nor yet rascals.  Nowt o' th'
kind, ma'am, nowt o' th' kind.  They've not doon me a kindness, ma'am, as
I know and feel.  But there's not a dozen men amoong 'em, ma'am   a dozen?
Not six   but what believes as he has doon his duty by the rest and by
himseln.  God forbid as I, that ha' known, and had'n experience o' these
men aw my life   I, that ha' ett'n an' droonken wi' 'em, an' seet'n wi'
'em, and toil'n wi' 'em, and lov'n 'em, should fail fur to stan by 'em
wi' the truth, let 'em ha' doon to me what they may! No, ma'am, no.  They're true to one another, faithfo' to one another,
'fectionate to one another, e'en to death.  Be poor amoong 'em, be sick
amoong 'em, grieve amoong 'em for onny o' th' monny causes that carries
grief to the poor man's door, an' they'll be tender wi' yo, gentle wi'
yo, comfortable wi' yo, Chrisen wi' yo.  Be sure o' that, ma'am.  They'd
be riven to bits, ere ever they'd be different. How 'tis, ma'am, that what is best in us fok, seems to turn us
most to trouble an' misfort'n an' mistake, I dunno.  But 'tis so.  I know
'tis, as I know the heavens is over me ahint the smoke.  We're patient
too, an' wants in general to do right.  An' I canna think the fawt is aw
wi' us. Sir, I am sure on 't. I ha' not coom here, sir, to complain.  I coom
for that I were sent for. Sir, I were never good at showin o 't, though I ha had'n my share in
feeling o 't.  'Deed we are in a muddle, sir.  Look round town   so rich as
'tis   and see the numbers o' people as has been broughten into bein heer,
fur to weave, an' to card, an' to piece out a livin', aw the same one
way, somehows, 'twixt their cradles and their graves.  Look how we live,
an' wheer we live, an' in what numbers, an' by what chances, and wi' what
sameness; and look how the mills is awlus a goin, and how they never
works us no nigher to ony dis'ant object   ceptin awlus, Death.  Look how
you considers of us, and writes of us, and talks of us, and goes up wi'
yor deputations to Secretaries o' State 'bout us, and how yo are awlus
right, and how we are awlus wrong, and never had'n no reason in us sin
ever we were born.  Look how this ha growen an' growen, sir, bigger an'
bigger, broader an' broader, harder an' harder, fro year to year, fro
generation unto generation.  Who can look on 't, sir, and fairly tell a
man 'tis not a muddle? I donno, sir.  I canna be expecten to 't.  'Tis not me as should be
looken to for that, sir.  'Tis them as is put ower me, and ower aw the
rest of us.  What do they tak upon themseln, sir, if not to do't? Sir, if yo was t' tak a hundred Slackbridges   aw as there is, and aw the
number ten times towd   an' was t' sew 'em up in separate sacks, an' sink
'em in the deepest ocean as were made ere ever dry land coom to be, yo'd
leave the muddle just wheer 'tis.  Mischeevous strangers! when ha we not heern, I am sure, sin ever we can
call to mind, o' th' mischeevous strangers!  'Tis not by _them_ the
trouble's made, sir.  'Tis not wi' _them_ 't commences.  I ha no favour
for 'em   I ha no reason to favour 'em   but 'tis hopeless and useless to
dream o' takin them fro their trade, 'stead o' takin their trade fro
them!  Aw that's now about me in this room were heer afore I coom, an'
will be heer when I am gone.  Put that clock aboard a ship an' pack it
off to Norfolk Island, an' the time will go on just the same.  So 'tis
wi' Slackbridge every bit. Sir, I canna, wi' my little learning an' my common way, tell the
genelman what will better aw this   though some working men o' this town
could, above my powers   but I can tell him what I know will never do 't.
The strong hand will never do 't.  Vict'ry and triumph will never do 't.
Agreeing fur to mak one side unnat'rally awlus and for ever right, and
toother side unnat'rally awlus and for ever wrong, will never, never do
't.  Nor yet lettin alone will never do 't.  Let thousands upon thousands
alone, aw leading the like lives and aw faw'en into the like muddle, and
they will be as one, and yo will be as anoother, wi' a black unpassable
world betwixt yo, just as long or short a time as sich-like misery can
last.  Not drawin nigh to fok, wi' kindness and patience an' cheery ways,
that so draws nigh to one another in their monny troubles, and so
cherishes one another in their distresses wi' what they need
themseln   like, I humbly believe, as no people the genelman ha seen in aw
his travels can beat   will never do 't till th' Sun turns t' ice.  Most o'
aw, rating 'em as so much Power, and reg'latin 'em as if they was figures
in a soom, or machines: wi'out loves and likens, wi'out memories and
inclinations, wi'out souls to weary and souls to hope   when aw goes quiet,
draggin on wi' 'em as if they'd nowt o' th' kind, and when aw goes
onquiet, reproachin 'em for their want o' sitch humanly feelins in their
dealins wi' yo   this will never do 't, sir, till God's work is onmade. I were not up to 't myseln, sir; I do assure yo. Sir, yo know weel, that if I canna get work
wi' yo, I canna get it elsewheer. Heaven help
us aw in this world! Ah, Rachael, my dear!  Missus, thou wi' her! But how wi' Rachael? Well, missus, I ha seen the lady, and she were young and
hansom.  Wi' fine dark thinkin eyes, and a still way, Rachael, as I ha
never seen the like on. Aye, missus, I suppose she be, Though as to master, not master onny more.  That's aw enden 'twixt him and me. Why, Rachael, whether I ha lef'n his work, or whether his
work ha lef'n me, cooms t' th' same.  His work and me are parted.  'Tis
as weel so   better, I were thinkin when yo coom up wi' me.  It would ha
brought'n trouble upon trouble if I had stayed theer.  Haply 'tis a
kindness to monny that I go; haply 'tis a kindness to myseln; anyways it
mun be done.  I mun turn my face fro Coketown fur th' time, and seek a
fort'n, dear, by beginnin fresh. I donno t'night, But I'm not goin t'night, Rachael, nor
yet t'morrow.  'Tan't easy overmuch t' know wheer t' turn, but a good
heart will coom to me. I'm more leetsome, Rachael, under 't, than I
could'n ha believed. Come to my poor place, missus, and tak a coop o' tea.
Rachael will coom then; and arterwards I'll see thee safe t' thy
Travellers' lodgin.  'T may be long, Rachael, ere ever I ha th' chance o'
thy coompany agen. I ha never thowt yet, missus, o' askin thy name. A widder, I think? 'Twere a bad job, too, to lose so good a one, Onny
children? I'm sooary I ha spok'n on 't, I ought t' hadn in my mind
as I might touch a sore place.  I   I blame myseln. But hearken, missus, hearken, 'Tisn't Mr.
Bounderby; 'tis his wife.  Yo'r not fearfo' o' her.  Yo was hey-go-mad
about her, but an hour sin. Certain sure! No one, excepting myseln, can ever know what honour, an' what love, an'
respect, I bear to Rachael, or wi' what cause.  When I passed that
promess, I towd her true, she were th' Angel o' my life.  'Twere a solemn
promess.  'Tis gone fro' me, for ever. Weel, ma'am, when I
ha finished off, I mun quit this part, and try another.  Fortnet or
misfortnet, a man can but try; there's nowt to be done wi'out tryin'   cept
laying down and dying. Afoot, my kind ledy, afoot. Not e'en Rachael, could mak sitch a kind offerin, by onny words, kinder.  T'
show that I'm not a man wi'out reason and gratitude, I'll tak two pound.
I'll borrow 't for t' pay 't back.  'Twill be the sweetest work as ever I
ha done, that puts it in my power t' acknowledge once more my lastin
thankfulness for this present action. What a hurry he is in! T' day's Monday, Why, sir, Friday or
Saturday, nigh 'bout. Yes, sure, I understand, sir, I shall strive t' see thee agen, Rachael, afore I go, but if not Thou'rt awlus right.  'Tis bolder and better.  I ha been thinkin then,
Rachael, that as 'tis but a day or two that remains, 'twere better for
thee, my dear, not t' be seen wi' me.  'T might bring thee into trouble,
fur no good. Well, well, 'Tis better, onnyways. Yes.  What can I say now, but Heaven be wi' thee, Heaven bless thee,
Heaven thank thee and reward thee! I towd thee, my dear, that night   that I would
never see or think o' onnything that angered me, but thou, so much better
than me, should'st be beside it.  Thou'rt beside it now.  Thou mak'st me
see it wi' a better eye.  Bless thee.  Good night.  Good-bye! Rachael. Rachael, my dear. Don't let 't go. I ha' been, but not now.  I ha' been   dreadful, and dree, and long, my
dear   but 'tis ower now.  Ah, Rachael, aw a muddle!  Fro' first to last, a
muddle! I ha' fell into th' pit, my dear, as have cost wi'in the knowledge o'
old fok now livin, hundreds and hundreds o' men's lives   fathers, sons,
brothers, dear to thousands an' thousands, an' keeping 'em fro' want and
hunger.  I ha' fell into a pit that ha' been wi' th' Firedamp crueller
than battle.  I ha' read on 't in the public petition, as onny one may
read, fro' the men that works in pits, in which they ha' pray'n and
pray'n the lawmakers for Christ's sake not to let their work be murder to
'em, but to spare 'em for th' wives and children that they loves as well
as gentlefok loves theirs.  When it were in work, it killed wi'out need;
when 'tis let alone, it kills wi'out need.  See how we die an' no need,
one way an' another   in a muddle   every day! Thy little sister, Rachael, thou hast not forgot her.  Thou'rt not like
to forget her now, and me so nigh her.  Thou know'st   poor, patient,
suff'rin, dear   how thou didst work for her, seet'n all day long in her
little chair at thy winder, and how she died, young and misshapen, awlung
o' sickly air as had'n no need to be, an' awlung o' working people's
miserable homes.  A muddle!  Aw a muddle! If aw th' things that tooches us, my dear, was not so muddled, I
should'n ha' had'n need to coom heer.  If we was not in a muddle among
ourseln, I should'n ha' been, by my own fellow weavers and workin'
brothers, so mistook.  If Mr. Bounderby had ever know'd me right   if he'd
ever know'd me at aw   he would'n ha' took'n offence wi' me.  He would'n
ha' suspect'n me.  But look up yonder, Rachael!  Look aboove! It ha' shined upon me, in my pain and trouble down
below.  It ha' shined into my mind.  I ha' look'n at 't and thowt o'
thee, Rachael, till the muddle in my mind have cleared awa, above a bit,
I hope.  If soom ha' been wantin' in unnerstan'in me better, I, too, ha'
been wantin' in unnerstan'in them better.  When I got thy letter, I
easily believen that what the yoong ledy sen and done to me, and what her
brother sen and done to me, was one, and that there were a wicked plot
betwixt 'em.  When I fell, I were in anger wi' her, an' hurryin on t' be
as onjust t' her as oothers was t' me.  But in our judgments, like as in
our doins, we mun bear and forbear.  In my pain an' trouble, lookin up
yonder,   wi' it shinin on me   I ha' seen more clear, and ha' made it my
dyin prayer that aw th' world may on'y coom toogether more, an' get a
better unnerstan'in o' one another, than when I were in 't my own weak
seln. You ha' heard? I ha' not
forgot you, ledy. You ha' a father.  Will yo tak' a message to him? If yo please. Sir, yo will clear me an' mak my name good wi' aw men.  This I leave to
yo. Sir, yor son will tell yo how.  Ask him.  I mak no
charges: I leave none ahint me: not a single word.  I ha' seen an' spok'n
wi' yor son, one night.  I ask no more o' yo than that yo clear me   an' I
trust to yo to do 't. Often as I coom to myseln, and found it shinin' on me down there in my
trouble, I thowt it were the star as guided to Our Saviour's home.  I
awmust think it be the very star! Rachael, beloved lass!  Don't let go my hand.  We may walk toogether
t'night, my dear! Bless thee!  Will soombody be pleased to coover my face! 

Rachel Gradgrind DIALOGUES
Ah, lad!  'Tis thou? No. 'Times I'm a little early, Stephen! 'times a little late.  I'm never to
be counted on, going home. No, Stephen. We are such true friends, lad, and such old friends, and getting to be
such old folk, now. One of us would be puzzled how to get old, Stephen, without 't other
getting so too, both being alive, but, anyways,
we're such old friends, and t' hide a word of honest truth fro' one
another would be a sin and a pity.  'Tis better not to walk too much
together.  'Times, yes!  'Twould be hard, indeed, if 'twas not to be at
all, Try to think not; and 'twill seem better. Never fret about them, Stephen, Let the laws be. Always a muddle? I am glad you have come at last, Stephen.  You are very late. I thought so.  But 'tis too bad a night for that.  The rain falls very
heavy, and the wind has risen. I have been here once before, to-day, Stephen.  Landlady came round for
me at dinner-time.  There was some one here that needed looking to, deed she was right.  All wandering and lost, Stephen.
Wounded too, and bruised. I came to do what little I could, Stephen; first, for that she worked
with me when we were girls both, and for that you courted her and married
her when I was her friend And next, for that I know your heart, and am right sure and certain that
'tis far too merciful to let her die, or even so much as suffer, for want
of aid.  Thou knowest who said, There have been plenty to do that.  Thou
art not the man to cast the last stone, Stephen, when she is brought so
low. Thou hast been a cruel sufferer, Heaven reward thee! I am thy poor friend, with all my heart and
mind. I will stay here, Stephen, till the bells go Three.  'Tis to be done again at three, and then she
may be left till morning. I slept sound last night.  I can wake many nights, when I am put to it.
'Tis thou who art in need of rest   so white and tired.  Try to sleep in
the chair there, while I watch.  Thou hadst no sleep last night, I can
well believe.  To-morrow's work is far harder for thee than for me. She don't know me, Stephen; she just drowsily mutters and stares.  I
have spoken to her times and again, but she don't notice!  'Tis as well
so.  When she comes to her right mind once more, I shall have done what I
can, and she never the wiser. Doctor said she would haply come to her mind to-morrow. A fright? Stephen! When she gets better, Stephen, 'tis to be hoped she'll leave thee to
thyself again, and do thee no more hurt.  Anyways we will hope so now.
And now I shall keep silence, for I want thee to sleep. 'Tis all well, Stephen.  I have been asleep, myself.  'Tis near three.
Hush!  I hear the bells. I thought it must be near three, I am thankful I
stayed!  'Tis done now, when I have put this on.  There!  And now she's
quiet again.  The few drops in the basin I'll pour away, for 'tis bad
stuff to leave about, though ever so little of it. No, Stephen.  'Tis but a minute, and I'm home. Stephen? I am, as I have told thee, Stephen, thy poor friend.  Angels are not
like me.  Between them, and a working woman fu' of faults, there is a
deep gulf set.  My little sister is among them, but she is changed. Have you left his work, Stephen? Where will you go, Stephen? Dead, Stephen, I have heard the end of it, young lady, The chances are very small, young lady   next to nothing   for a man who
gets a bad name among them. The name of being troublesome. I didn't seek it of him, poor lad.  I prayed
him to avoid trouble for his own good, little thinking he'd come to it
through me.  But I know he'd die a hundred deaths, ere ever he'd break
his word.  I know that of him well. I canna do that, young lady, Bless you for thinking o' the poor lad wi' such tenderness.  But 'tis
for him to know his heart, and what is right according to it. Thou wilt not, Stephen, I know.  'Tis better that we make up our minds
to be open wi' one another. 'Tis not for that, Stephen, that I mind.  But thou know'st our old
agreement.  'Tis for that. Thou'lt write to me, and tell me all that happens, Stephen? May it bless thee, Stephen, too, in all thy wanderings, and send thee
peace and rest at last! You have seen me once before, young lady, You have seen me, young lady, once before. Will you
make it known, young lady, where, and who was there? Say, young lady, if you please, why, in an evil hour,
you ever came to Stephen's that night. Did you offer him, a bank-note? Young lady, Stephen Blackpool is now named as a thief in
public print all over this town, and where else!  There have been a
meeting to-night where he have been spoken of in the same shameful way.
Stephen!  The honestest lad, the truest lad, the best! Oh, young lady, young lady, I hope you may be, but I
don't know!  I can't say what you may ha' done!  The like of you don't
know us, don't care for us, don't belong to us.  I am not sure why you
may ha' come that night.  I can't tell but what you may ha' come wi' some
aim of your own, not mindin to what trouble you brought such as the poor
lad.  I said then, Bless you for coming; and I said it of my heart, you
seemed to take so pitifully to him; but I don't know now, I don't know! And when I think, that the poor lad was
so grateful, thinkin you so good to him   when I mind that he put his hand
over his hard-worken face to hide the tears that you brought up there   Oh,
I hope you may be sorry, and ha' no bad cause to be it; but I don't know,
I don't know! 'Deed, I am loath, that any here
should see me like this; but I won't be seen so again.  Young lady, when
I had read what's put in print of Stephen   and what has just as much truth
in it as if it had been put in print of you   I went straight to the Bank
to say I knew where Stephen was, and to give a sure and certain promise
that he should be here in two days.  I couldn't meet wi' Mr. Bounderby
then, and your brother sent me away, and I tried to find you, but you was
not to be found, and I went back to work.  Soon as I come out of the Mill
to-night, I hastened to hear what was said of Stephen   for I know wi'
pride he will come back to shame it!   and then I went again to seek Mr.
Bounderby, and I found him, and I told him every word I knew; and he
believed no word I said, and brought me here. I have written to Stephen by the post that went out this afternoon, as I
have written to him once before sin' he went away, and he
will be here, at furthest, in two days. He hadn't been gone from here, young lady, as much as a week, when he sent me the only
letter I have had from him, saying that he was forced to seek work in
another name. What, what, young
lady, in the name of Mercy, was left the poor lad to do!  The masters
against him on one hand, the men against him on the other, he only wantin
to work hard in peace, and do what he felt right.  Can a man have no soul
of his own, no mind of his own?  Must he go wrong all through wi' this
side, or must he go wrong all through wi' that, or else be hunted like a
hare? You need have no fear of that, young lady.  He is sure! He shall not, through any act of mine, come back wi' the unmerited
reproach of being brought back.  He shall come back of his own accord to
clear himself, and put all those that have injured his good character,
and he not here for its defence, to shame.  I have told him what has been
done against him, and he will be here, at furthest, in two days. It goes against me, to mistrust
any one; but when I am so mistrusted   when we all are   I cannot keep such
things quite out of my mind.  I ask your pardon for having done you an
injury.  I don't think what I said now.  Yet I might come to think it
again, wi' the poor lad so wronged. I doubt, if he can be here till next day. I misdoubt, if there is as many as twenty left in all
this place, who have any trust in the poor dear lad now. If it hadn't been mercifully brought about, that I was to have you to
speak to, times are, when I think my mind would not
have kept right.  But I get hope and strength through you; and you
believe that though appearances may rise against him, he will be proved
clear? And I, my dear, have known
him through them all, to be, according to his quiet ways, so faithful to
everything honest and good, that if he was never to be heard of more, and
I was to live to be a hundred years old, I could say with my last breath,
God knows my heart.  I have never once left trusting Stephen Blackpool! The better I know it to be so believed there, my dear, and the kinder I feel it that you come away from there, purposely to
comfort me, and keep me company, and be seen wi' me when I am not yet
free from all suspicion myself, the more grieved I am that I should ever
have spoken those mistrusting words to the young lady.  And yet I Now that you have brought us more together, no.  But I can't at all
times keep out of my mind I can't at all times keep out of my mind, mistrustings of some one.  I
can't think who 'tis, I can't think how or why it may be done, but I
mistrust that some one has put Stephen out of the way.  I mistrust that
by his coming back of his own accord, and showing himself innocent before
them all, some one would be confounded, who   to prevent that   has stopped
him, and put him out of the way. It _is_ a dreadful thought to think he may be murdered. When it makes its way into my mind, dear, and it will
come sometimes, though I do all I can to keep it out, wi' counting on to
high numbers as I work, and saying over and over again pieces that I knew
when I were a child   I fall into such a wild, hot hurry, that, however
tired I am, I want to walk fast, miles and miles.  I must get the better
of this before bed-time.  I'll walk home wi' you. But he is in none of them.  He has been sought for in all, and he's not
there. He'd walk the journey in two days.  If he was footsore and couldn't
walk, I sent him, in the letter he got, the money to ride, lest he should
have none of his own to spare. I get better, dear, if I can only walk, and breathe a little fresh.
'Times when I can't, I turn weak and confused. Yes, dear. It's Mrs. Pegler, What is the matter? O the poor lad, the poor lad!  He has been made away with.  He is lying
murdered here! O, my good Lord!  He's down there!  Down there! No, no, no! Thou'rt in great pain, my own dear Stephen? I will hold thy hand, and keep beside thee, Stephen, all the way. 

Mrs. Blackpool DIALOGUES
Eigh, lad?  What, yo'r there? Back agen? Yes!  And back agen.  Back agen ever and ever so often.  Back?
Yes, back.  Why not? I'll sell thee off again, and I'll sell thee off again, and I'll sell
thee off a score of times! Come awa' from th' bed! Come
awa! from 't.  'Tis mine, and I've a right to t'! 

Mr. James Harthouse DIALOGUES
I beg your pardon, pray excuse
me. Thank you.  Allow me. I left my servant at the railway
looking after the luggage   very heavy train and vast quantity of it in the
van   and strolled on, looking about me.  Exceedingly odd place.  Will you
allow me to ask you if it's _always_ as black as this? Is it possible!  Excuse me: you are not a native, I think? Beg your pardon, really! Was   ? Powler Family, You must be very much bored here? Very philosophical, and very exemplary and
laudable, and Assuredly, Much obliged to you for reminding me.
I am the bearer of a letter of introduction to Mr. Bounderby, the banker.
Walking through this extraordinarily black town, while they were getting
dinner ready at the hotel, I asked a fellow whom I met; one of the
working people; who appeared to have been taking a shower-bath of
something fluffy, which I assume to be the raw material Raw material   where Mr. Bounderby, the banker, might reside.  Upon
which, misled no doubt by the word Banker, he directed me to the Bank.
Fact being, I presume, that Mr. Bounderby the Banker does _not_ reside in
the edifice in which I have the honour of offering this explanation? Thank you.  I had no intention of delivering my letter at the present
moment, nor have I. But strolling on to the Bank to kill time, and having
the good fortune to observe at the window, a lady of a very superior and
agreeable appearance, I considered that I could not do better than take
the liberty of asking that lady where Mr. Bounderby the Banker _does_
live.  Which I accordingly venture, with all suitable apologies, to do. Banks, I know, are always suspicious, and officially must be, therefore I may
observe that my letter   here it is   is from the member for this
place   Gradgrind   whom I have had the pleasure of knowing in London. Thousand thanks, Of course you know the Banker
well? Quite an eternity!  I think he married Gradgrind's daughter? The lady is quite a philosopher, I am told? Excuse my impertinent curiosity, but you know the
family, and know the world.  I am about to know the family, and may have
much to do with them.  Is the lady so very alarming?  Her father gives
her such a portentously hard-headed reputation, that I have a burning
desire to know.  Is she absolutely unapproachable?  Repellently and
stunningly clever?  I see, by your meaning smile, you think not.  You
have poured balm into my anxious soul.  As to age, now.  Forty?  Five and
thirty? I give you my honour, Mrs. Powler, that I never was so astonished in my life! I
assure you, Mrs. Powler, that the
father's manner prepared me for a grim and stony maturity.  I am obliged
to you, of all things, for correcting so absurd a mistake.  Pray excuse
my intrusion.  Many thanks.  Good day! Mr.
Bounderby, I assure you I am entirely and completely of your way of
thinking.  On conviction. Mr. Bounderby, perfectly right. Mr. Bounderby, you anticipate my dearest wishes. Come! If you're in the complimentary line, you'll get
on here, for you'll meet with no competition.  I have never been in the
way of learning compliments myself, and I don't profess to understand the
art of paying 'em.  In fact, despise 'em.  But, your bringing-up was
different from mine; mine was a real thing, by George!  You're a
gentleman, and I don't pretend to be one.  I am Josiah Bounderby of
Coketown, and that's enough for me.  However, though I am not influenced
by manners and station, Loo Bounderby may be.  She hadn't my
advantages   disadvantages you would call 'em, but I call 'em advantages   so
you'll not waste your power, I dare say. Mr. Bounderby, is a noble
animal in a comparatively natural state, quite free from the harness in
which a conventional hack like myself works. Now, how am I to take this? Mrs. Bounderby, upon my honour, no.  I will
make no such pretence to you.  I have seen a little, here and there, up
and down; I have found it all to be very worthless, as everybody has, and
as some confess they have, and some do not; and I am going in for your
respected father's opinions   really because I have no choice of opinions,
and may as well back them as anything else. I have not so much as the slightest predilection left.  I assure you I
attach not the least importance to any opinions.  The result of the
varieties of boredom I have undergone, is a conviction (unless conviction
is too industrious a word for the lazy sentiment I entertain on the
subject), that any set of ideas will do just as much good as any other
set, and just as much harm as any other set.  There's an English family
with a charming Italian motto.  What will be, will be.  It's the only
truth going! The side that can prove anything in a line of units,
tens, hundreds, and thousands, Mrs. Bounderby, seems to me to afford the
most fun, and to give a man the best chance.  I am quite as much attached
to it as if I believed it.  I am quite ready to go in for it, to the same
extent as if I believed it.  And what more could I possibly do, if I did
believe it! Pardon me; I have not even that merit.  We are the largest party in the
state, I assure you, Mrs. Bounderby, if we all fell out of our adopted
ranks and were reviewed together. charming! Is there nothing, is there nothing that
will move that face? Mrs. Bounderby, your brother's face is quite familiar to me.  Can I have
seen him abroad?  Or at some public school, perhaps? So much the more is this whelp the only
creature she has ever cared for, So much the more.  So much the more. Do you smoke? A very good fellow indeed! What a comical brother-in-law you are! You are a piece of caustic, Tom, Don't mind me, but take care when his wife is by, you
know. That's the past tense, Tom, We are in the present tense,
now. Good!  Very quaint! Though you don't mean it. My dear fellow, what am I bound to suppose, when I
find two married people living in harmony and happiness? Very dutiful in your interesting sister, It was charming, Tom! Perfectly delightful.  And she gets on so placidly. Ay, ay?  Has resources of her own, Formed his daughter on his own model? Impossible! Come, Tom!  I can hardly believe that.  A joke's a joke. And your intelligent sister? Calling at the Bank yesterday evening, for Mr. Bounderby's address, I
found an ancient lady there, who seems to entertain great admiration for
your sister, Come, it's late.  Be off! Yes, it's too mild, Oh really? Whom none of us believe, my dear Mrs. Bounderby, and who do not believe
themselves.  The only difference between us and the professors of virtue
or benevolence, or philanthropy   never mind the name   is, that we know it
is all meaningless, and say so; while they know it equally and will never
say so. Why, sir, I am told that Nickits, gave seven hundred pound for that Seabeach.  Now, to be plain
with you, if I ever, in the whole course of my life, take seven looks at
it, at a hundred pound a look, it will be as much as I shall do.  No, by
George!  I don't forget that I am Josiah Bounderby of Coketown.  For
years upon years, the only pictures in my possession, or that I could
have got into my possession, by any means, unless I stole 'em, were the
engravings of a man shaving himself in a boot, on the blacking bottles
that I was overjoyed to use in cleaning boots with, and that I sold when
they were empty for a farthing a-piece, and glad to get it! Mrs. Bounderby, I esteem it a most fortunate accident that I find you
alone here.  I have for some time had a particular wish to speak to you. Your brother.  My young friend Tom I
never in my life, saw anything so remarkable and so
captivating as the lighting of those features! Pardon me.  The expression of your sisterly interest is so beautiful   Tom
should be so proud of it   I know this is inexcusable, but I am so
compelled to admire. Mrs. Bounderby, no: you know I make no pretence with you.  You know I am
a sordid piece of human nature, ready to sell myself at any time for any
reasonable sum, and altogether incapable of any Arcadian proceeding
whatever. You are rigid with me, and I deserve it.  I am as worthless a dog as you
will find, except that I am not false   not false.  But you surprised and
started me from my subject, which was your brother.  I have an interest
in him. If you had asked me when I first came here, I should have said no.  I
must say now   even at the hazard of appearing to make a pretence, and of
justly awakening your incredulity   yes. Thank you.  I claim to deserve it.  You know how little I do claim, but
I will go that length.  You have done so much for him, you are so fond of
him; your whole life, Mrs. Bounderby, expresses such charming
self-forgetfulness on his account   pardon me again   I am running wide of
the subject.  I am interested in him for his own sake. Mrs. Bounderby, it is no irrevocable offence in a young fellow of your
brother's years, if he is heedless, inconsiderate, and expensive   a little
dissipated, in the common phrase.  Is he? Allow me to be frank.  Do you think he games at all? I think he makes bets. Of course he loses? Everybody does lose who bets.  May I hint at the probability of your
sometimes supplying him with money for these purposes? Acquit me of impertinent curiosity, my dear Mrs. Bounderby.  I think Tom
may be gradually falling into trouble, and I wish to stretch out a
helping hand to him from the depths of my wicked experience.   Shall I say
again, for his sake?  Is that necessary? Candidly to confess everything that has occurred to me, I will confide to you my doubt whether he has had many
advantages.  Whether   forgive my plainness   whether any great amount of
confidence is likely to have been established between himself and his
most worthy father. Or, between himself, and   I may trust to your perfect understanding of my
meaning, I am sure   and his highly esteemed brother-in-law. Mrs. Bounderby, may there be a
better confidence between yourself and me?  Tom has borrowed a
considerable sum of you? So spirited, too! Mrs. Bounderby, though a graceless person, of the world worldly, I feel
the utmost interest, I assure you, in what you tell me.  I cannot
possibly be hard upon your brother.  I understand and share the wise
consideration with which you regard his errors.  With all possible
respect both for Mr. Gradgrind and for Mr. Bounderby, I think I perceive
that he has not been fortunate in his training.  Bred at a disadvantage
towards the society in which he has his part to play, he rushes into
these extremes for himself, from opposite extremes that have long been
forced   with the very best intentions we have no doubt   upon him.  Mr.
Bounderby's fine bluff English independence, though a most charming
characteristic, does not   as we have agreed   invite confidence.  If I might
venture to remark that it is the least in the world deficient in that
delicacy to which a youth mistaken, a character misconceived, and
abilities misdirected, would turn for relief and guidance, I should
express what it presents to my own view. All allowance, must be made.  I have one great fault to
find with Tom, however, which I cannot forgive, and for which I take him
heavily to account. Perhaps, I have said enough.  Perhaps it would have been
better, on the whole, if no allusion to it had escaped me. To relieve you from needless apprehension   and as this confidence
regarding your brother, which I prize I am sure above all possible
things, has been established between us   I obey.  I cannot forgive him for
not being more sensible in every word, look, and act of his life, of the
affection of his best friend; of the devotion of his best friend; of her
unselfishness; of her sacrifice.  The return he makes her, within my
observation, is a very poor one.  What she has done for him demands his
constant love and gratitude, not his ill-humour and caprice.  Careless
fellow as I am, I am not so indifferent, Mrs. Bounderby, as to be
regardless of this vice in your brother, or inclined to consider it a
venial offence. In a word, it is to correct your brother in this, Mrs. Bounderby, that I
must aspire.  My better knowledge of his circumstances, and my direction
and advice in extricating them   rather valuable, I hope, as coming from a
scapegrace on a much larger scale   will give me some influence over him,
and all I gain I shall certainly use towards this end.  I have said
enough, and more than enough.  I seem to be protesting that I am a sort
of good fellow, when, upon my honour, I have not the least intention to
make any protestation to that effect, and openly announce that I am
nothing of the sort.  Yonder, among the trees, is your brother himself; no doubt, just come down.  As he seems to be
loitering in this direction, it may be as well, perhaps, to walk towards
him, and throw ourselves in his way.  He has been very silent and doleful
of late.  Perhaps, his brotherly conscience is touched   if there are such
things as consciences.  Though, upon my honour, I hear of them much too
often to believe in them. Whose name, Tom, have you been carving on the trees? You have a suspicious appearance of inscribing some fair creature's on
the bark, Tom. I am afraid you are mercenary, Tom. Tom is misanthropical to-day, as all bored people are now and then, Don't believe him, Mrs. Bounderby.  He knows much
better.  I shall disclose some of his opinions of you, privately
expressed to me, unless he relents a little. Tom, my fine fellow, I want to have a word with you. Tom, what's the matter? My good fellow, so am I. Tom, you are inconsiderate: you expect too much of your sister.  You
have had money of her, you dog, you know you have. But, my dear Tom, if your sister has not got it My dear Tom, let me try to be your banker. What is the present need, Tom?  Three figures?  Out with them.  Say what
they are. Whelp, whelp! what an
Ass you are! Well, it may be of more use by and by.  And, my
good fellow, if you will open your bedevilments to me when they come
thick upon you, I may show you better ways out of them than you can find
for yourself. Now, you see, Tom, every man is selfish in everything he does, and I am exactly like the
rest of my fellow-creatures.  I am desperately intent; on your softening towards your
sister   which you ought to do; and on your being a more loving and
agreeable sort of brother   which you ought to be. No time like the present, Tom.  Begin at once. Having made which bargain, Tom, we will tear ourselves asunder
until dinner-time. So much the less is the whelp the only creature that she cares for, So much the less, so much the less. Heard what? I have heard you, and so has this brute.  I have heard nothing else. You don't mean it! Of much? Of how much? My dear Bounderby, I _do_ see it; and am as overcome as you can possibly
desire me to be, by the spectacle afforded to my mental view.
Nevertheless, I may be allowed, I hope, to congratulate you   which I do
with all my soul, I assure you   on your not having sustained a greater
loss. I suppose it might. Very well.  And this young man, Bitzer, you saw him too on the same
occasion? Where is Tom, by the by? Is anybody suspected? I hope, not our friend Blackpot? Suspicious, certainly. Of course, they will be punished with the utmost rigour of the law, as
notice-boards observe, and serve them right.
Fellows who go in for Banks must take the consequences.  If there were no
consequences, we should all go in for Banks. An occasion, I am sure, not to be forgotten by myself in the course of
Ages, I have had the honour, by a coincidence of which I am proud, to have
made a remark, similar in effect, though not so epigrammatically
expressed. Your memory does me more honour than my insignificance deserves.  I
availed myself of your obliging hints to correct my timidity, and it is
unnecessary to add that they were perfectly accurate.  Mrs. Sparsit's
talent for   in fact for anything requiring accuracy   with a combination of
strength of mind   and Family   is too habitually developed to admit of any
question. You drew her portrait perfectly, Presented her
dead image. Highly so. Oh, perfectly! Perfectly.  And an infinitely dreary person he appeared to me to be.
Lengthy and prosy in the extreme.  It was knowing to hold forth, in the
humble-virtue school of eloquence; but, I assure you I thought at the
time, My dear Louisa   as Tom says. You know no good
of the fellow? Nor of any other such person? My dear Louisa, then consent to receive the submissive representation of
your devoted friend, who knows something of several varieties of his
excellent fellow-creatures   for excellent they are, I am quite ready to
believe, in spite of such little foibles as always helping themselves to
what they can get hold of.  This fellow talks.  Well; every fellow talks.
He professes morality.  Well; all sorts of humbugs profess morality.
From the House of Commons to the House of Correction, there is a general
profession of morality, except among our people; it really is that
exception which makes our people quite reviving.  You saw and heard the
case.  Here was one of the fluffy classes pulled up extremely short by my
esteemed friend Mr. Bounderby   who, as we know, is not possessed of that
delicacy which would soften so tight a hand.  The member of the fluffy
classes was injured, exasperated, left the house grumbling, met somebody
who proposed to him to go in for some share in this Bank business, went
in, put something in his pocket which had nothing in it before, and
relieved his mind extremely.  Really he would have been an uncommon,
instead of a common, fellow, if he had not availed himself of such an
opportunity.  Or he may have originated it altogether, if he had the
cleverness. I only say what is reasonable; nothing worse.  I have talked it over
with my friend Tom more than once   of course I remain on terms of perfect
confidence with Tom   and he is quite of my opinion, and I am quite of his.
Will you walk? My dearest love, what could I do?  Knowing you were alone,
was it possible that I could stay away? My dear child, will you not bear with my society for a little while? Where, Louisa? But we have so little time to make so much of, and I have come so far,
and am altogether so devoted, and distracted.  There never was a slave at
once so devoted and ill-used by his mistress.  To look for your sunny
welcome that has warmed me into life, and to be received in your frozen
manner, is heart-rending. But we must meet, my dear Louisa.  Where shall we meet? Shall I ride up to the house a few minutes hence, innocently supposing
that its master is at home and will be charmed to receive me? Your cruel commands are implicitly to be obeyed; though I am the most
unfortunate fellow in the world, I believe, to have been insensible to
all other women, and to have fallen prostrate at last under the foot of
the most beautiful, and the most engaging, and the most imperious.  My
dearest Louisa, I cannot go myself, or let you go, in this hard abuse of
your power. Where were you last night, Tom? I was prevented from coming   detained. Where? Did you see your sister? So, whether I am waiting for a hostile message, or an assignation, or a
penitent remonstrance, or an impromptu wrestle with my friend Bounderby
in the Lancashire manner   which would seem as likely as anything else in
the present state of affairs   I'll dine, Bounderby has the advantage in point of weight; and if anything of a
British nature is to come off between us, it may be as well to be in
training. Some dinner at six   with a beefsteak in it, Outside?  Where? To Mr. Harthouse. And you speak to him with the
most confiding eyes I ever saw, and the most earnest voice (though so
quiet) I ever heard. You may, I assure you. I am young, as you see; I am alone, as you see.  In coming to you, sir,
I have no advice or encouragement beyond my own hope. But
that is very strong, This is a very odd beginning.  I don't see
where we are going. I have been in the greatest concern and uneasiness during the last
four-and-twenty hours (which have appeared as many years), on a lady's account.  The hopes I have been encouraged to form that you
come from that lady, do not deceive me, I trust. At   ! Then I certainly, do _not_ see
where we are going. So startling an announcement, so confidently made, and by such lips, is
really disconcerting in the last degree.  May I be permitted to inquire,
if you are charged to convey that information to me in those hopeless
words, by the lady of whom we speak? The drowning man catches at the straw.  With no disrespect for your
judgment, and with no doubt of your sincerity, excuse my saying that I
cling to the belief that there is yet hope that I am not condemned to
perpetual exile from that lady's presence. Must believe?  But if I can't   or if I should, by infirmity of nature, be
obstinate   and won't Well!  If it should unhappily appear, after due pains and
duty on my part, that I am brought to a position so desolate as this
banishment, I shall not become the lady's persecutor.  But you said you
had no commission from her? I am not a moral sort of fellow, and I never make any
pretensions to the character of a moral sort of fellow.  I am as immoral
as need be.  At the same time, in bringing any distress upon the lady who
is the subject of the present conversation, or in unfortunately
compromising her in any way, or in committing myself by any expression of
sentiments towards her, not perfectly reconcilable with   in fact with   the
domestic hearth; or in taking any advantage of her father's being a
machine, or of her brother's being a whelp, or of her husband's being a
bear; I beg to be allowed to assure you that I have had no particularly
evil intentions, but have glided on from one step to another with a
smoothness so perfectly diabolical, that I had not the slightest idea the
catalogue was half so long until I began to turn it over.  Whereas I
find, that it is really in
several volumes. After what has been just now represented to me, in a manner I find it
impossible to doubt   I know of hardly any other source from which I could
have accepted it so readily   I feel bound to say to you, in whom the
confidence you have mentioned has been reposed, that I cannot refuse to
contemplate the possibility (however unexpected) of my seeing the lady no
more.  I am solely to blame for the thing having come to this   and   and, I
cannot say, that I
have any sanguine expectation of ever becoming a moral sort of fellow, or
that I have any belief in any moral sort of fellow whatever. You spoke, of your
first object.  I may assume that there is a second to be mentioned? Will you oblige me by confiding it? But do you know, the extent of what you
ask?  You probably are not aware that I am here on a public kind of
business, preposterous enough in itself, but which I have gone in for,
and sworn by, and am supposed to be devoted to in quite a desperate
manner?  You probably are not aware of that, but I assure you it's the
fact. Besides which, it's so alarmingly absurd.  It would make a man so
ridiculous, after going in for these fellows, to back out in such an
incomprehensible way. Upon my soul, I don't
know what to say.  So immensely absurd! If I were to do such a very ridiculous thing, it could only be in
the most inviolable confidence. I suppose a man never was placed in a more ridiculous position, But I see no way out of it.  What
will be, will be.  _This_ will be, I suppose.  I must take off myself, I
imagine   in short, I engage to do it. You will permit me to say, that I doubt
if any other ambassador, or ambassadress, could have addressed me with
the same success.  I must not only regard myself as being in a very
ridiculous position, but as being vanquished at all points.  Will you
allow me the privilege of remembering my enemy's name? The only name I could possibly care to know, to-night. Pardon my curiosity at parting.  Related to the family? It wanted this to complete the defeat, The defeat may now be considered perfectly accomplished.
Only a poor girl   only a stroller   only James Harthouse made nothing
of   only James Harthouse a Great Pyramid of failure. Send my fellow here. Tell him to get up, and pack up. 

Slackbridge DIALOGUES
OH, my friends, the down-trodden operatives of Coketown!  Oh, my friends
and fellow-countrymen, the slaves of an iron-handed and a grinding
despotism!  Oh, my friends and fellow-sufferers, and fellow-workmen, and
fellow-men!  I tell you that the hour is come, when we must rally round
one another as One united power, and crumble into dust the oppressors
that too long have battened upon the plunder of our families, upon the
sweat of our brows, upon the labour of our hands, upon the strength of
our sinews, upon the God-created glorious rights of Humanity, and upon
the holy and eternal privileges of Brotherhood! But oh, my friends and brothers!  Oh, men and Englishmen, the
down-trodden operatives of Coketown!  What shall we say of that man   that
working-man, that I should find it necessary so to libel the glorious
name   who, being practically and well acquainted with the grievances and
wrongs of you, the injured pith and marrow of this land, and having heard
you, with a noble and majestic unanimity that will make Tyrants tremble,
resolve for to subscribe to the funds of the United Aggregate Tribunal,
and to abide by the injunctions issued by that body for your benefit,
whatever they may be   what, I ask you, will you say of that working-man,
since such I must acknowledge him to be, who, at such a time, deserts his
post, and sells his flag; who, at such a time, turns a traitor and a
craven and a recreant, who, at such a time, is not ashamed to make to you
the dastardly and humiliating avowal that he will hold himself aloof, and
will _not_ be one of those associated in the gallant stand for Freedom
and for Right? Oh, my friends and fellow-men! I do not wonder that you, the prostrate sons of
labour, are incredulous of the existence of such a man.  But he who sold
his birthright for a mess of pottage existed, and Judas Iscariot existed,
and Castlereagh existed, and this man exists! My friends, by virtue o' my office as your president, I askes
o' our friend Slackbridge, who may be a little over hetter in this
business, to take his seat, whiles this man Stephen Blackpool is heern.
You all know this man Stephen Blackpool.  You know him awlung o' his
misfort'ns, and his good name. Oh,
my friends, what but this did I tell you?  Oh, my fellow-countrymen, what
warning but this did I give you?  And how shows this recreant conduct in
a man on whom unequal laws are known to have fallen heavy?  Oh, you
Englishmen, I ask you how does this subornation show in one of
yourselves, who is thus consenting to his own undoing and to yours, and
to your children's and your children's children's? Oh, my fellow-men, behold of what a traitor in the camp of
those great spirits who are enrolled upon the holy scroll of Justice and
of Union, is appropriately capable!  Oh, my prostrate friends, with the
galling yoke of tyrants on your necks and the iron foot of despotism
treading down your fallen forms into the dust of the earth, upon which
right glad would your oppressors be to see you creeping on your bellies
all the days of your lives, like the serpent in the garden   oh, my
brothers, and shall I as a man not add, my sisters too, what do you say,
_now_, of Stephen Blackpool, with a slight stoop in his shoulders and
about five foot seven in height, as set forth in this degrading and
disgusting document, this blighting bill, this pernicious placard, this
abominable advertisement; and with what majesty of denouncement will you
crush the viper, who would bring this stain and shame upon the God-like
race that happily has cast him out for ever!  Yes, my compatriots,
happily cast him out and sent him forth!  For you remember how he stood
here before you on this platform; you remember how, face to face and foot
to foot, I pursued him through all his intricate windings; you remember
how he sneaked and slunk, and sidled, and splitted of straws, until, with
not an inch of ground to which to cling, I hurled him out from amongst
us: an object for the undying finger of scorn to point at, and for the
avenging fire of every free and thinking mind to scorch and scar!  And
now, my friends   my labouring friends, for I rejoice and triumph in that
stigma   my friends whose hard but honest beds are made in toil, and whose
scanty but independent pots are boiled in hardship; and now, I say, my
friends, what appellation has that dastard craven taken to himself, when,
with the mask torn from his features, he stands before us in all his
native deformity, a What?  A thief!  A plunderer!  A proscribed fugitive,
with a price upon his head; a fester and a wound upon the noble character
of the Coketown operative!  Therefore, my band of brothers in a sacred
bond, to which your children and your children's children yet unborn have
set their infant hands and seals, I propose to you on the part of the
United Aggregate Tribunal, ever watchful for your welfare, ever zealous
for your benefit, that this meeting does Resolve: That Stephen Blackpool,
weaver, referred to in this placard, having been already solemnly
disowned by the community of Coketown Hands, the same are free from the
shame of his misdeeds, and cannot as a class be reproached with his
dishonest actions! 

The Chairman DIALOGUES
Is the man heer?  If the man's
heer, Slackbridge, let's hear the man himseln, 'stead o' yo. Slackbridge, let the man be heern, and howd thee tongue! Stephen Blackpool, think on 't agen.  Think
on 't once agen, lad, afore thou'rt shunned by aw owd friends. 

The Old Woman DIALOGUES
Well, and now you are surprised to be sure, and with reason I must say, Here I am again, you see. Why, I come to be with this good lass pretty much as I came to be with
you, My
visiting time is later this year than usual, for I have been rather
troubled with shortness of breath, and so put it off till the weather was
fine and warm.  For the same reason I don't make all my journey in one
day, but divide it into two days, and get a bed to-night at the
Travellers' Coffee House down by the railroad (a nice clean house), and
go back Parliamentary, at six in the morning.  Well, but what has this to
do with this good lass, says you?  I'm going to tell you.  I have heard
of Mr. Bounderby being married.  I read it in the paper, where it looked
grand   oh, it looked fine! and I want to see his wife.  I have never seen her yet.
Now, if you'll believe me, she hasn't come out of that house since noon
to-day.  So not to give her up too easily, I was waiting about, a little
last bit more, when I passed close to this good lass two or three times;
and her face being so friendly I spoke to her, and she spoke to me.
There! you can make all the rest out for
yourself now, a deal shorter than I can, I dare say! Young and handsome.  Yes! As
bonny as a rose!  And what a happy wife! Suppose she be?  She must be.  She's your master's wife, Mrs. Pegler. Oh, many long years! No, Not now, not now. I
had a son, and he did well, wonderfully well.  But he is not
to be spoken of if you please.  He is dead! I have lost him. Bounderby! Oh hide me!  Don't let me be seen for the world.  Don't let him
come up till I've got away.  Pray, pray! But are you sure it's the lady, and not the gentleman? Well then, pray don't speak to me, nor yet take any notice of me, Let me be quite to myself in this corner. because she was such a pretty dear. My dear Josiah! My darling boy!  I am
not to blame.  It's not my fault, Josiah.  I told this lady over and over
again, that I knew she was doing what would not be agreeable to you, but
she would do it. My own boy!  She threatened me that if I resisted her, I should be
brought by constables, and it was better to come quietly than make that
stir in such a such a fine house as this.  Indeed, indeed, it is not my fault!
My dear, noble, stately boy!  I have always lived quiet, and secret,
Josiah, my dear.  I have never broken the condition once.  I have never
said I was your mother.  I have admired you at a distance; and if I have
come to town sometimes, with long times between, to take a proud peep at
you, I have done it unbeknown, my love, and gone away again. _Me_ unnatural! _Me_ inhuman!  To my dear
boy? _I_ deserted my Josiah! Now,
Lord forgive you, sir, for your wicked imaginations, and for your scandal
against the memory of my poor mother, who died in my arms before Josiah
was born.  May you repent of it, sir, and live to know better! Josiah in the gutter! No such a thing, sir.
Never!  For shame on you!  My dear boy knows, and will give _you_ to
know, that though he come of humble parents, he come of parents that
loved him as dear as the best could, and never thought it hardship on
themselves to pinch a bit that he might write and cipher beautiful, and
I've his books at home to show it!  Aye, have I! And my dear boy knows, and will give _you_ to know,
sir, that after his beloved father died, when he was eight years old, his
mother, too, could pinch a bit, as it was her duty and her pleasure and
her pride to do it, to help him out in life, and put him 'prentice.  And
a steady lad he was, and a kind master he had to lend him a hand, and
well he worked his own way forward to be rich and thriving.  And _I_'ll
give you to know, sir   for this my dear boy won't   that though his mother
kept but a little village shop, he never forgot her, but pensioned me on
thirty pound a year   more than I want, for I put by out of it   only making
the condition that I was to keep down in my own part, and make no boasts
about him, and not trouble him.  And I never have, except with looking at
him once a year, when he has never knowed it.  And it's right, that I _should_ keep down
in my own part, and I have no doubts that if I was here I should do a
many unbefitting things, and I am well contented, and I can keep my pride
in my Josiah to myself, and I can love for love's own sake!  And I am
ashamed of you, sir, for your slanders and
suspicions.  And I never stood here before, nor never wanted to stand
here when my dear son said no.  And I shouldn't be here now, if it hadn't
been for being brought here.  And for shame upon you, Oh, for shame, to
accuse me of being a bad mother to my son, with my son standing here to
tell you so different! 

Jane DIALOGUES
Last night, Louisa. Sissy, I believe. Because I found her here this morning.  She didn't come to my bedside to
wake me, as she always does; and I went to look for her.  She was not in
her own room either; and I went looking for her all over the house, until
I found her here taking care of you and cooling your head.  Will you see
father? Sissy said I was to tell him when you woke. Have I?  I am very glad you think so.  I am sure it must be Sissy's
doing. Oh no, Louisa, it was done before I came.  It was 

The Waiter DIALOGUES
Beg your pardon, sir.  You're wanted, sir, if you please. Beg your pardon, sir.  Young lady outside, sir, wishes to see you. Outside this door, sir. Gone to bed, sir. 

The Clown DIALOGUES
If you do it again, I'll throw the horse at
you! Now _I_'ll have a turn! 

